---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2016-11-11
author: Sean
category: security-roundup
date: '2016-11-11'
tags:
- conferences
- exploits
- honeypots
- internetofthings
- ransomware
---

A few good IoT related articles:

 * Mirai may be imploding [as competing hackers fight over the
   resources](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/cybercrime/exploits/2016/11/exploit-kits-fall-2016-review/).
   As these botnets are also designed to keep out the competition, the botnets
   may be fracturing into smaller and smaller groupings.
 * Rapid 7 has been tracking Mirai, and also noticed [a drop in overall active
   nodes](https://community.rapid7.com/community/infosec/blog/2016/11/08/election-day-tracking-the-mirai-botnet).
 * Several people sent me ["IoT Goes Nuclear"](http://iotworm.eyalro.net/), a
   research paper that illustrates a proof of concept worm for the Philip's Hue.
   They were able to develop a technique to force a bulb in proximity to update
   its firmware. From there, the infected device was able to spread through the
   network. Assuming a critical mass of similar devices, the entire network
   could be shut down or repurposed for malicious activity.
 * Wired has a story of a researches that [built a stingray device that looks
   like an office
   printer](https://www.wired.com/2016/11/evil-office-printer-hijacks-cellphone-connection/).
   Since the device is indoors, it is that much easier to overwhelm outside
   cell towers, to monitor your traffic and perform malicious things.

Sucuri has published their [October Lab Notes
recap](https://blog.sucuri.net/2016/11/labs-notes-monthly-recap-oct2016.html).
Lots of eCommerce related maliciousness, where they believe attackers are
preparing for the holiday season. Additionally, two notes on tricks backdoors
are using to avoid casual detection.

Google has expanded their [HTTPS Transparency
Report](https://security.googleblog.com/2016/11/heres-to-more-https-on-web.html),
demonstrating an upwards trend in Chrome users interacting with sites over
HTTPS. Additionally, they have rolled out a new [Safe
Browsing](https://safebrowsing.google.com/) site.

Rapid 7 has developed a new Honeypot network and [has a writeup of some early
observations](https://community.rapid7.com/community/infosec/blog/2016/11/02/cross-cloud-adversary-analytics).
They spread their pots across a number of cloud providers, and noticed a
decidedly uneven distribution of attacks. They also noticed that inter-cloud
communication was heavier in AWS to AWS public traffic than expected, a possible
indicator of companies using AWS Classic, vs using VPCs to keep traffic
internal.

Can your password survive 100 guesses? This is the question posed by recent
research, which found that, with a little bit of PII, they has [a one in five
chance](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2016/11/09/would-your-password-withstand-100-guesses-from-a-hacker/)
of guessing a password before reaching NIST's lockout guidelines.

Endgame Security researcher Bobby Flair provides a [writeup of
AISec](https://www.endgame.com/blog/endgame-research-aisec-deep-dga), where they
also presented their paper on "DeepDGA: Adversarially-Tuned Domain Generation
and Detection". Effectively automating better ways to avoid DGA detection, to be
used to automate better detection of generated domains.

Talos does a deep dive on the [RIG Exploit
Kit](http://blog.talosintel.com/2016/11/rig-exploit-kit-campaign-happy-puzzling.html).
RIG apparently has a number of configurable variants, and various levels of
obfuscation to make tracking difficult. It tends to try to infect with various
scripts, so where one might fail another may succeed. This includes
ActionScript, Flash, JavaScript, and VBScript. MalwareBytes also has an [Exploit
Kit
Retrospective](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/cybercrime/exploits/2016/11/exploit-kits-fall-2016-review/)
for the last few months, giving some highlights on how these operate and are
changing.

BleepingComputer [rounds up the
ransomware](http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/the-week-in-ransomware-november-4th-2016-cerber-paydos-alcatraz-locker-and-more/),
detailing several new ransomware variants.
