---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2016-11-23
author: Sean
category: security-roundup
date: '2016-11-23'
tags:
- bugbounty
- conferences
- exploits
- internetofthings
- mobiledevices
- ransomware
---

Happy Thanksgiving! I just found out that [DerbyCon 2016
videos](http://www.irongeek.com/i.php?page=videos/derbycon6/mainlist) have been
up for over a month, and [DefCon 24
videos](https://www.youtube.com/user/DEFCONConference/videos) went up in the
last week, so I know what I am going to be filling SOME of my time this weekend.

Some internet of things news:

Several Siemen's branded CC TV cameras are vulnerable to a bug that [would allow
attackers to gain admin
credentials](https://threatpost.com/credentials-accessible-in-siemens-branded-cctv-cameras/122072/). 

Similarly, security researcher Robers Stevens recently purchased an IP based
camera and [decided to see how quickly it was
compromised](https://www.hackread.com/mirai-botnet-hacks-surveillance-camera-in-98-secs/).
In under 2 minutes he had details on how some attackers were exploiting and what
they were doing once they gained control.

Some phone related problems were mentioned this week including:

An insecure update mechanism for a number of phones [which could operate as a
rootkit to execute arbitrary system
commands](https://threatpost.com/backdoor-found-in-firmware-of-some-android-devices/122075/).

An unknown set of phones [regularly sends user data to servers in
China](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/16/us/politics/china-phones-software-security.html?_r=0).
The company responsible declares it was a mistake, intended for Chinese devices,
but it unfortunately impacts some US ones as well. The company in question has
also suggested they have taken steps to correct, including distruction of the
data, but as of this time they have not detailed which devices might actually be
impacted.

Qualcomm has opened up a [bug bounty
program](https://threatpost.com/qualcomm-and-hackerone-partner-on-bounty-program/122050/)
for their Snapdragon processors used to power multiple mobile devices.

In a follow up on a previous article on how he validates data breaches, Troy
Hunt reiterates why [alleged data breaches need to be
validates](https://www.troyhunt.com/data-breach-claims-are-often-poorly-researched-unsubstantiated-and-ultimately-fake/),
before being shared as such. It all comes down to publicity, who wants it and
how easy it might be to just make up/relabel data to gain it.

In a somewhat similar vein, O'Reilly hosts an article on the [challenges of
validating attack detection
methods](https://www.oreilly.com/learning/strategies-to-validate-your-security-detections).
Challenges include tainted data, a variety of datasets, attacks in the wild
being perhaps detected so rarely as to provide too small a sample set, and no
incentive for defenders to share their overall raw data to provide data
scientists better data.

Akamai released their Q3 [State of the Internet
Report](https://content.akamai.com/pg7407-soti-security-report-q3-en.html).
Unsurprising at this point, DDoS attacks are up with a 138% increase of attacks
> 100 Gbps YoY and a 58% increase QoQ. They have also noticed a downward trend
of NTP reflection attack volume, from upwards to 40 Gbps in 2014 to 700 Mpbs in
2016, this decrease is attributed to organizations patching their servers to
mitigate known problems that allowed these attacks.

CheckPoint labs provides their ['October Most Wanted Malware
List'](http://blog.checkpoint.com/2016/11/21/octobers-wanted-malware-list-reveals-attacks-rise/),
where they see a 5% growth in families and distribution over the course of the
month. Zeus and Locky continue to be prevalent in the ranks, though Conficker is
still #1 after several months.

Ars Technica reports on one researcher's discovery of subtle bugs in a linux
audio processing library. With it, the researcher was able to [craft specific
audio
files](http://arstechnica.com/security/2016/11/elegant-0day-unicorn-underscores-serious-concerns-about-linux-security/)
that could be used to bypass some standard linux security constraints.

BleepingComputer provides plenty of [interesting ransomware news again this
week](http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/the-week-in-ransomware-november-18th-2016-crysis-cryptoluck-chip-and-more/).
This week: The CrySiS ransomware had its encryption keys released, ransomware
writers seeking help from security researchers to fix their crypto to 'help
victims ensure their files can be decrypted', an uptick in distribution
channels, and plenty of new variants.
