---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2016-11-17
author: Sean
category: security-roundup
date: '2016-11-17'
tags:
- bugbounty
- exploits
- hardware
- malware
- ransomware
---

Following up on the 'Hack The Pentagon' bug bounty program, the Army announced
['Hack The Army'](https://hackerone.com/blog/announcing-hack-the-army) on
Veteran's Day. 

The Verge reports an unfortunate cause of user's Skype accounts being
compromised. Despite urging customer's to migrate their accounts to Microsoft
accounts for stricter security, [user's original Skype accounts could be used to
log
in](http://www.theverge.com/2016/11/8/13561024/microsoft-skype-baidu-linkedin-hack),
potentially leaving accounts vulnerable due to leaked credentials. User's are
urged to 'complete' the migration.

['Pwnfest'](http://pwnfest.org/), a security bug finding festival wrapped up
this week. Among the systems available, VMWare was exploited (and subsequently
[fixed](https://threatpost.com/vmware-patches-vm-escape-vulnerability/121953/)),
as well as [Microsoft Edge exploits
found](https://www.hackread.com/microsoft-edge-and-vmware-hacked/), as well as
the new [Pixel phone being
exploited](https://www.hackread.com/pwnfest-google-pixel-apple-safari-hacked/).

Talos goes in depth on how they do [triage for some
vulnerabilities](http://blog.talosintel.com/2016/11/crashing-stacks-without-squishing-bugs.html)
for binaries, specifically stack based buffer overflow and heap based buffer
overflow/heap overflow bugs.

I imagine everyone has heard of
[PoisonTap](https://hackaday.com/2016/11/16/poinsontap-makes-raspberry-pi-zero-exploit-locked-computers/)
at this point, but for those who haven't.... PoisonTap is an exploit device
based on the Raspberry Pi that emulates a network device. Once connected, it
convinces the laptop that all traffic should be routed to it. This allows the
device to intercept traffic, harvest cookies, and poison the browser. The later
allows the device to open up a websocket to allow remote control of the browser.
The engineer behind the device suggests simple security measures be added for
usb devices: simply prompt the user when (most/all) when connected if they would
like the device to be allowed.

Chinese researchers have revealed that poor OAuth 2.0 (used to do single sign on
via services like Facebook and Google) implementations cam be hijacked. Based on
their analysis of top performing apps, they believe more than [1 billion
accounts](https://threatpost.com/oauth-2-0-hack-exposes-1-billion-mobile-apps-to-account-hijacking/121889/)
could be subject to compromise. The attack relies on a a malicious app being
installed on the device, allowing the attacker to MitM connections.

Fortinet has been working to identify the author of several strains of malware
and gives an inside view of [what sorts of information they look
for](https://blog.fortinet.com/2016/11/10/unmasking-the-bonasira-cyperine-author)
in order to find relationships.

BleepingComputer wraps us up with the [Ransomware
Roundup](http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/the-week-in-ransomware-november-11th-2016-noobcrypt-fsociety-gingerbread-and-more/).
Among the regular variants, some interesting news: Multiple new versions of
Cerber, which has expanded the ip subnets they use to communicate back
information and statistics to C&C nodes; A ransomware variant that is marketed
as a Paysafe (Prepaid money card) number generator, asking people who are trying
to 'generate' money to pay money; proof of concept PHP ransomware which could
use another exploit to encrypt web servers; a new variant dubbed 'Telecrypt' due
to the fact that it uses the Telegram service as its C&C channel.
