---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2016-11-03
author: Sean
category: security-roundup
date: '2016-11-03'
tags:
- breaches
- exploits
- internetofthings
- leaks
- ransomware
---

The first [O'Reilly Security
Conference](http://conferences.oreilly.com/security/network-data-security-ny)
just wrapped up in NYC. I opted to attend last minute and was glad I chose to,
due to a number of really good conversations with other attendees. I plan to
share a seperate write up of some of the highlights in the near future.

Let's keep following the Mirai after effects:

 * Cloudflare mentions the [impact to their systems](https://blog.cloudflare.com/how-the-dyn-outage-affected-cloudflare/),
   and their own observations, on the Dyn attack. Additionally, they detail [how
   they have set up their
   architecture](https://blog.cloudflare.com/how-cloudflares-architecture-allows-us-to-scale-to-stop-the-largest-attacks/)
   to deal with large scale attacks, which includes speading load across tens of
   thousands of servers.
 * ThreatPost reveals some [exploits in the Mirai
   codebase](https://threatpost.com/mirai-vulnerability-disclosed-but-exploits-may-constitute-hacking-back/121644/)
   can be used to stop attacks. However, 'hacking back' is not legal in the USA.
 * Wirecutter, a gadgets and gear review site, has published an article asking
   ['Are Smart Homes Open Houses for
   Hackers?'](http://thewirecutter.com/blog/are-smart-homes-open-houses-for-hackers/).
   Tying in the recent attack and giving a review of some fairly prominent
   device exploits, it is a good read.
 * Engadget has a similar piece on ['That time your smart toaster broke the
   internet'](https://www.engadget.com/2016/10/28/that-time-your-smart-toaster-broke-the-internet/),
   going over the recent problems, as well as some of the history of botnets and
   connected devices.
 * Rapid7 goes into how to avoid ['Default
   Fail'](https://community.rapid7.com/community/infosec/blog/2016/10/26/avoiding-default-fail)
   for wireless systems, of which IoT devices use.
 * News has been circulating about [a new IoT
   botnet](https://threatpost.com/new-iot-botnet-malware-borrows-from-mirai/121705/),
   taking lessons from Mirai, building on top of Aidra from 2013, and apparently
   [infecting 3500 machines in its first 5
   days](http://arstechnica.com/security/2016/11/new-iot-botnet-that-borrows-from-notorious-mirai-infects-3500-devices/).
 * HackForums.net has [shut down a portion of their
   site](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2016/10/hackforums-shutters-booter-service-bazaar/)
   which advertised 'Stress Testing Services', some of which may have been DDoS
   as a Service providers in disguise.

Google has indicated that Chrome will only trust certificates that [participate
in the certificate transparency
standard](https://threatpost.com/google-to-make-certificate-transparency-mandatory-by-2017/121651/).
Google intends this to encourage Certificate Authorities to tighten up their own
security, and cut down mis-issues certificates that can be used maliciously. One
downside, however, is this would require certificates for inside corporate
networks to be part of Certificate Transparency, which would leak internal
networking details. Additionally, Google has indicated that they will stop
trusting certificates [signed by WoSign and
StartCom](http://security.googleblog.com/2016/10/distrusting-wosign-and-startcom.html)
due to certificate misuse.

Google has also disclosed the existence of a [Windows zero day vulnerability being
exploited](https://threatpost.com/google-reveals-windows-kernel-zero-day-under-attack/121689/),
ahead of an announcement by Microsoft. While Google is acting under a long
standing disclosure policy for 'critical flaws under active exploitation', but
Microsoft suggests they are not being responsible for 'coordinated vulnerability
disclosure' and putting customers at risk. Coincidentally, Rapid 7 has an
article on [Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure Advice for
Researchers](https://community.rapid7.com/community/infosec/blog/2016/10/28/ncsam-coordinated-vulnerability-disclosure-advice-for-researchers).

A new named exploit called
[Atombombing](http://blog.ensilo.com/atombombing-a-code-injection-that-bypasses-current-security-solutions)
has been detailed. The exploit rely's on 'atom tables', an area of Windows where
apps can share data. Researchers have discovered a way in which malware can
share malicious code, and then trick legitimate apps into loading and executing
the payload.

Sophos tells the tale of the recent [Paypal 2FA
bypass](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2016/10/28/paypal-2fa-bypass-how-did-that-get-past-testing/).
It appears that the client side was submitting the questions AND the answers,
and simply deleting both could bypass 2FA.

Breakpoint Labs continues their series on 'How We Get Into Your System'. This
week features [Multicast Name Resolution
Poisoning](https://breakpoint-labs.com/multicast-name-poisoning/), which takes
advantage of some local networking protocols to harvest username/password
hashes.

Troy Hunt tells us how an anonymous user happened to find a chunk of [Australian
Red Cross blood donor records
online](https://www.troyhunt.com/the-red-cross-blood-service-australias-largest-ever-leak-of-personal-data/),
where they happened to have accidentally been exposed via a database backup that
was accidentally exposed on a partner's website. Troy tells the whole story, as
well as why he decided NOT to load the data into Have I Been Pwned.

This week's [Ransomware Roundup by
BleepingComputer](http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/the-week-in-ransomware-october-28-2016-locky-angry-duck-and-more/)
contains more variants (including one that makes you fill out a survey!) and a 
malware developer who tried to sell security researchers decrypt keys when the 
researcher had already exploited the C&C to harvest decryption keys.
