---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2016-12-01
author: Sean
category: security-roundup
date: '2016-12-01'
tags:
- hijacks
- internetofthings
- ransomware
---

cURL, an open source program/library used by many open source projects, recently
[underwent a security
audit](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2016/11/25/curl-security-audit-learns-the-lessons-of-heartbleed/)
from Mozilla's [Secure Open
Source](https://wiki.mozilla.org/MOSS/Secure_Open_Source) initiative. Overall 23
issues were proactively identified and fixed, prior to a 'Heartbleed' like event
the initiative was created in reaction to.

In a post Mirai world, Fortinet delves in to managing the [attack surface of
Smart
Cities](https://blog.fortinet.com/2016/11/24/post-mirai-managing-the-attack-surface-of-a-smart-city)
in the world of tomorrow.

Deutsche Telekom customers have had their modems targeted this week, [knocking
users off the
internet](https://threatpost.com/new-mirai-variant-targets-routers-knocks-900000-offline/122155/).
Researchers from the SANS institute indicate that left unchecked these routers
could be compromised and become part of a botnet. Deutsche Telekom has
apparently already pushed out a fix. Rapid7 has a [summary of some of the raw
data](https://community.rapid7.com/community/infosec/blog/2016/11/29/on-the-recent-dsl-modem-vulnerabilities).

Firefox user's should update, as Mozilla has fixed a 0-Day that [was used to
de-anonymize
users](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2016/12/01/firefox-and-tor-users-update-now-0-day-exploit-in-the-wild/).
While this is important for TOR users specifically, researchers indicate the
payload could also have been used to execute malware. Endpoint Security provides
an [in-depth technical
writeup](https://www.endgame.com/blog/another-0day-another-prevention).

On the importance of maintaining and monitoring your third party accounts, it
appears as though a small number of MailChip accounts were [broken into and used
to send malicious
attachments](https://motherboard.vice.com/en_uk/read/hackers-are-using-mailchimp-to-spread-malware).
Mailchimp does offer 2FA, making it easier for user's to secure their accounts.

Proving that pretty much anyone can be a victim of Ransomware, [SF
MUNI](https://threatpost.com/hackers-make-new-claim-in-san-francisco-transit-ransomware-attack/122138)
was a victim to HDDCryptor. MUNI suggests that there was [no actual breach, and
no data was
stolen](https://www.sfmta.com/about-sfmta/blog/update-sfmta-ransomware-attack),
nor were actual transit systems impacted. KrebsOnSecurity has already been
provided some information on the hacker in the form of [emails from his email
account](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2016/11/san-francisco-rail-system-hacker-hacked/),
which someone has hacked. These provide details into the number of companies
impacted, as well as the techniques the attacker used.

BleepingComputer brings the rest of the [Ransomware
Roundup](http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/the-week-in-ransomware-november-25th-2016-locky-decryptors-cerber-open-source-ransomware-sucks-and-more/).
Nothing particularly 'new' this week, but still plenty of variants, new
versions, and decryptors.
