---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2016-12-08
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2016-12-08'
tags:
- internetofthings
- malware
- ransomware
---

Botnets might get a big influx in nodes this holiday season as researchers have
[discovered hard coded credentials in 80 Sony IP
cameras](http://www.pcworld.com/article/3147311/security/backdoor-accounts-found-in-80-sony-ip-security-camera-models.html).
Sony has released a fix to remove this 'debugging code', but user's still have
to apply the updates.

A mobile malware strain called
[Gooligan](http://arstechnica.com/security/2016/11/1-million-android-accounts-compromised-by-android-malware-called-gooligan/)
has been making the rounds. Using unpatched exploits on older versions of
Android, it roots the device to gain admin access, allowing it to download
additional applications in the background to do things like steal information,
install adware, and interact in the Google ecosystem as the user. Checkpoint has
indicated that over [1 million accounts are
impacted](http://blog.checkpoint.com/2016/11/30/1-million-google-accounts-breached-gooligan/).

Duo does an analysis of their data to see if [2FA over SMS has
decreased](https://duo.com/blog/nist-shouted-who-listened-analyzing-user-response-to-nists-guidance-on-sms-2fa-security)
since NIST suggested it is insecure. Overall, it appears that in the 2 months
since the announcement there has been no marked decrease so far, but overall SMS
as a factor seems to be declining over the year in favor of methods like
Universal 2 Factor (U2F) and Duo Push.

Researchers have discovered some attack vectors for credit cards which would
[allow attackers to repeatedly
guess](https://techcrunch.com/2016/12/05/a-new-tool-can-crack-a-credit-card-number-in-six-seconds/?ncid=rss)
at details by distributing hundreds of guesses across eCommerce systems,
allowing them to figure out information in seconds. MasterCard users will
apparently have fraudulent activity lockdowns that occur after 100 tries. Visa,
unfortunately, does not apparently have a similar lockdown.

The FBI has apparently stuck a major blow against the Avalanche botnet, [taking
ownership of 800K domains used by the
DGA](http://arstechnica.com/security/2016/12/legal-raids-in-five-countries-seize-botnet-servers-sinkhole-800000-domains/)
as well as seizing and shutting down servers suspected of being C&C nodes.

DeepDotWeb dives into the latest Locky mechanism where [a specially crafted SVG
image can direct users to
malware](https://www.deepdotweb.com/2016/12/07/maliciously-crafted-images-spread-malware/),
exploring the image itself and the browser extension it prompts users to
install.

Similarly, Ars Technica explores some malware that was hidden in [pixel ad
banners on a variety of
sites](http://arstechnica.com/security/2016/12/millions-exposed-to-malvertising-that-hid-attack-code-in-banner-pixels/). 
The malware resides in a heavily obfuscated javascript file, but the actual
malicious payload occurs when it loads an ad image that contains hidden
malicious instructions.

BleepingComputer [rounds up the
ransomware](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/the-week-in-ransomware-december-2nd-2016-screenlockers-kangaroo-the-sfmta-and-more/).
New this week: Screen lockers, tech support scams, new ransomware variants,
including one that uses GPG to encrypt files. 
