---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-02-02
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-02-02'
tags:
- antivirus
- breaches
- exploits
- hardware
- internetofthings
- malware
- ransomware
---

Think last year was a bad year for modems? A security researcher from Trustwave
Security details how [he found a bug in his
router](https://www.trustwave.com/Resources/SpiderLabs-Blog/CVE-2017-5521--Bypassing-Authentication-on-NETGEAR-Routers/)
that impacted 31 different Netgear routers overall. Sadly, part of his research
involved finding two publically disclosed exploits for similar flaws in 2014 and
expanding on that work. Netgear responded to this responsible disclosure and has
issued patches for the affected devices.

Trustwave Security also increased my knowledge about SVG this week with their 
article on [how SVG can actually contain
Javascript](https://www.trustwave.com/Resources/SpiderLabs-Blog/SVG-Files-Are-Not-As-Benign-As-It-May-Seem/)
and be used to execute remote payloads as a result.

In more device security news, Threatpost reports on a printer flaw that [allows
an attacker to extract
information](https://threatpost.com/flaws-found-in-popular-printer-models/123488/),
including documents and credentials, remotely. They achieved this using a
combination of "Cross Site Printing" and CORS spoofing to make a user's browser
act as a relay to exfiltrate data.

Akamai has been doing research into credential abuse, specifically scenarios
where a botnet is [working to avoid standard security 
controls](https://blogs.akamai.com/2017/01/improving-credential-abuse-threat-mitigation.html).
In these scenarios an individual website is unlikely to detect this behavior,
since volumes are low and attempts are spread out across ips, accounts and time.
However, when viewed in an aggregate across a number of sites they are
protecting, Akamai was able to detect a number of sources and targets and
increased detection of these attacks more readily than single site observation
would.

LeakedSource, a website that obtained breach data and sold it openly was taken
down this week. Troy Hunt, owner of HaveIBeenPwned, provides [his thoughts on
the service and the
takedown](https://www.troyhunt.com/thoughts-on-the-leakedsource-take-down/). In
his article, Troy is critical of the LeakedSource model where anyone could pay
and get personal details from leaks. He points out a number of instances where
this information has clearly been used maliciously (in Ourmine account takeover
ways), and suggests that LeakedSource was also incentivizing attackers to find
and turn up more data.

Google has just announced that they will [now operate their own Root
Certificate
Authority](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/01/the-foundation-of-more-secure-web.html), 
as well as aquiring two existing root CAs from GlobalSign. Among other things,
this will allow Google tighter control over who can generate 'official' Google
certificates, as their products could check the entire certificate chain, rather
than just trust existing root CAs. With CAs like StartCom issuing rogue
certificates, and even well known CAs like Symantec and GlobalSign having issues
with certificates in the last year, it is understandable that a company like
Google has shifted towards wanting more control over the security of all their
properties.

Ars has an interesting article suggesting that [Antivirus is making it harder to
secure the
browser](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/01/antivirus-is-bad/).
In this article, several browser engineers have pointed out where security
protections have been delayed/had problems due to Antivirus hooking into and in
some cases disabling functionality. An additional observation, supported by a
number of [vulnerabilities last year](https://seanstoppable.github.io/2016/06/30/security-roundup-2016-06-30), 
is that the addition of anti-virus provides a larger attack surface.

In ransomware, BleepingComputer provides two terrible infection stories. In one,
a police department lost [up to 8 years of digital
evidence](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/police-department-loses-years-worth-of-evidence-in-ransomware-incident/),
with some data having backups but recent data likely not. The second was for a
hotel where the infected computer was also used to [provision key cards for
electronic
locks](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/ransomware-infects-electronic-door-locking-system-at-austrian-hotel/).
Since this only impacted the generation of the key, no customers were actually
impacted.

Want to learn more about the new Locky Bart versions? Malwarebytes does an [in
depth
analysis](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/threat-analysis/2017/01/locky-bart-ransomware-and-backend-server-analysis/)
of the inner operations.

Talos Intel recently analyzed a malicious attachment apparently aimed at some
government officials. They go into detail [on the several layers of
complexity](http://blog.talosintel.com/2017/01/matryoshka-doll.html) the payload
goes into in order to execute (doc file, with flash that executes actionscript)
as well as some methods it used to avoid casual analysis.

For further in depth malware analysis Talos also [disects
EyePyramid](http://blog.talosintel.com/2017/01/Eye-Pyramid.html), a malware
sample that had remained undetected for a few years.

