layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-12-21
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-12-21'
tags:
- breaches
- encryption
- exploits
- internetofthings
- ransomware
- wordpress
---

_Tripwires detect potential data breaches_. Security researchers released recent
work they have done to monitor sites for breaches. The work is simple, but
effective in said simplicity: sign up to sites with unique emails and passwords
and [monitor the associated email accounts for login
attempts](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2017/12/15/simple-research-tool-detects-19-unknown-data-breaches/).
A successful login with a password is largely indicative of some sort of
data leak and the researchers did this with varying lengths of passwords to try
to infer password storage practices. Finally, they set up multiple accounts
across 2302 organizations. After 9 months, they had collected evidence that 19
of them had some degree of compromise.

_Another batch of printers remote controllable from the internet_. NewSky
Security has discovered another batch of printers completely exposed to the
internet, this time in the form of [1123 Lexmark
devices](https://threatpost.com/user-gross-negligence-leaves-hundreds-of-lexmark-printers-open-to-attack/129187/).
Attackers could conceivably do things like gain a toe hold into a network, or
simply just steal copies of documents that are sent to the printer.

_Firefox joins Chrome in highlighting non-HTTPS sites_. The Google Chrome team
announced [back in
April](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/04/next-steps-toward-more-connection.html)
plains to start marking HTTP sites as 'Not Secure', and now Firefox seems to be
thinking about that as revealed by a [new configuration
option](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/software/firefox-prepares-to-mark-all-http-sites-not-secure-after-https-adoption-rises/).

_On the profitability of stolen credentials_. Krebs On Security dives into the
[resellers market of stolen
credentials](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2017/12/the-market-for-stolen-account-credentials/).
Specifically focusing on a site called "Carder's Paradise" where credential
prices range from $10 to $190. More disturbingly, entire sets of identities are
available, indexed by credit score.

_FoxIT speaks about MitM attacks_. Earlier this year, FoxIT was the victim of a
[man-in-the-middle
attack](https://www.fox-it.com/en/insights/blogs/blog/fox-hit-cyber-attack/),
when an attacker took over DNS entries and pointed them at their own servers to
route traffic through. Specifically, attackers targeted the portal for secure
exchange of files, hoping to gain access to credentials and files of FoxIT's
customers. The attackers also intercepted mail, allowing them to obtain a
legitimate SSL certificate, since they appeared as if they owned the domain. The
entire attack lasted 10 hours and 30 minutes, due to FoxIT's quick
investigation. The breakdown seems to indicate the attack happened after hours,
likely deliberately to avoid initial scrutiny. Additionally, FoxIT points out
that there is little to no reason they should not be using two factor
authorization for their DNS provider (except, for course, it turns out their DNS
provider doesn't provide 2FA yet!).

_Top 25 popular passwords of 2017_. Despite all the breaches of 2017, password
security has not improved, as [demonstrated by the top 25 most popular passwords
of the
year](https://gizmodo.com/the-25-most-popular-passwords-of-2017-you-sweet-misgu-1821425092).
`123456` and `Password` still remain popular. Of note, most of these passwords
are under or just barely conforming to NIST guidelines of 8 characters in a
password, partially indicating that if sites just increased minimum password
lengths, they would eliminate a subset of common passwords. Granted, this
doesn't protect us from the people that do `password01` or `1234567890`, but any
trend towards longer/stronger passwords would be a welcome one.

_BrickerBot retires_. The author of BrickerBot, a botnet that tried to take a
number of vulnerable devices offline, has retired and published a [rought
timeline of their
work](https://github.com/JeremyNGalloway/mod_plaintext.py/blob/master/Internet%20Chemotherapy).
Among other things, they outlines the problems of exposed devices and the
botnets like Mirai that have disrupted the internet, and how they felt they had
no choice but to enact "Internet Chemotherapy" in order to remove bad nodes from
the system. They also point out that major providers like Akamai and Cloudflare
have seen a downtrend in DDoS attacks, which they attribute to their own work of
removing DDoS nodes from availability.

_Copyright claim accidentally exposes Wordpress backdoor_. Wordpress took down a
third party captcha plugin due to misuse of the 'Wordpress' trademark.
Incidentally, when plugins are removed from the Wordpress repository, security
company Wordfence, dives in to check if this is due to security and if they
should take action on behalf of their users. In this case, they discovered that
the takedown wasn't due to security [but still managed to discover the fact that
the plugin has a
backdoor](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/backdoor-found-in-Wordpress-plugin-with-more-than-300-000-installations/).
The plugin in question is one of several stories this year of plugins in various
software (Chrome, Wordpress, etc), being purchased or taken over and then
updated to perform malicious actions once user's update due to now implicit
trust.

_Inside look into SSRF_. Server side request forgery (SSRF) is an attack in
which an attacker uses one service to make unexpected requests to others. Follow
along as one security researcher [uses this to send emails from a companies
internal email server](http://www.sxcurity.pro/2017/12/17/hackertarget/).
