---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-03-23
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-03-23'
tags:
- hardware
- internetofthings
- mobile
- passwords
- ransomware
- research
---

LastPass urges users to upgrade all clients (including web extensions), due to a
[number of security
issues](https://blog.lastpass.com/2017/03/important-security-updates-for-our-users.html/)
that allow users to potentially steal credentials or execute arbitrary code.

Interested in web shell analysis? Trustwave Security writes about how they
discovered and analyzed a [web shell used to take over a client
network](https://www.trustwave.com/Resources/SpiderLabs-Blog/Authentication-and-Encryption-in-PAS-Web-Shell-Variant/).

Sucuri has an update on [malicious
subdirectories](https://blog.sucuri.net/2017/03/malicious-subdirectories-strike-again.html)
where malicious users upload content (like essay selling sites) and serve them
from otherwise legit accounts.

Cisco has been analyzing the 'Vault7' data and has [released a customer
warning](https://threatpost.com/cisco-warns-of-critical-vulnerability-revealed-in-vault-7-data-dump/124414/),
pointing out a CVE that impacts 300 of their products. While no fix is available
at time of writing, Cisco has pointed out a few mitigation strategies. Since
the CVE involves Telnet being enabled, the simplest solution is to disable that
and use SSH.

More IoT exploits found, this time in the form of an actual backdoor in certain
[VOIP
gateways](https://www.trustwave.com/Resources/SpiderLabs-Blog/Undocumented-Backdoor-Account-in-DBLTek-GoIP/).
Hackaday revisits the topic of [IoT
Security](https://hackaday.com/2017/03/22/shut-the-backdoor-more-iot-cybersecurity/),
discussing both accidental and deliberate backdoors which, once known, then
become usable for everyone.

Pwn2Own happened last week, and once again some enterprising hackers [found
exploits in a number of 
products](https://threatpost.com/vm-escape-earns-hackers-105k-at-pwn2own/124397/).
This year Google Chrome managed to escape without being exploited, but other
major browsers did not share this fortune. Windows and macOS also fell victim to
exploits. New this year was an exploit found for VMware Workstation, which was
largely avoided last year. Mozilla managed to patch the flaw discovered in
Firefox in a quick [22
hours](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/it-took-mozilla-22-hours-to-patch-a-firefox-vulnerability-discovered-at-pwn2own/).

Speaking of Firefox, I just learned that it now points out when logins are over
HTTP connections. This news seems to have been primarily spread because [Oil and
Gas International filed a
ticket](https://arstechnica.com/security/2017/03/firefox-gets-complaint-for-labeling-unencrypted-login-page-insecure/)
complaining to Mozilla for this change. They claimed to have their own security
system, which resulted in reddit users poking around and finding a number of
vulnerabilities, such as SQL injections and pointing out that payments were
processed over plaintext.

A common theme for the last year has been security products that eventually
compromise security. Whether that be
[Antivirus](https://seanstoppable.github.io/2016/06/30/security-roundup-2016-06-30) 
being exploited, or making it [harder to implement browser
security](https://seanstoppable.github.io/2017/02/02/security-roundup-2017-02-02),
or provide a [larger attack
surface](https://seanstoppable.github.io/2016/07/20/security-roundup-2016-07-20).

The latest is security issue which allows [attackers to take over antivirus
software](https://cybellum.com/doubleagent-taking-full-control-antivirus/).
Dubbed 'DoubleAgent', as it turns anti-virus against you, this exploit leverages
a bug in Windows 'Microsoft Application Verifier', which allows a malicious
agent to inject their own verification process. Microsoft has provided a better
mechanism in Windows 8.1+, which requires properly signed software updates.

This issue is not limited to antivirus products, however. A research paper 
entitled [The Security Impact Of HTTPS 
Interception](https://jhalderm.com/pub/papers/interception-ndss17.pdf), has
prompted US-CERT to suggest that security appliances that perform TLS 
interception are themselves security flaws. Since the devices man in the middle 
TLS connections and are potentially using weaker cipher suites and protocols (I
wonder how many support TLS 1.3) than user's devices do (Chrome and Firefox 
support TLS 1.3). Vendors who sell these products [happen to
disagree](https://threatpost.com/us-cert-warns-https-inspection-may-degrade-tls-security/124375/).

Google reviews the last year in [Android
Security](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/03/diverse-protections-for-diverse.html),
highlighting the decrease in malicious software due to their "Verify Apps"
initiative, the security improvements they have made to Android itself, and
their efforts to ensure the entire software chain gets security updates out
faster.

In ransomware news:

After a year of brisk business, it seems that Locky is [finally in
decline](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/numbers-show-locky-ransomware-is-slowly-fading-away/),
with no new versions discovered this year.

Part of Locky's decline is partially due to the disappearance of the Necurs
botnet at the start of the year. Talos Intel reports that Necurs is back, but
back to [trying to manipulate penny stocks in 'pump and dump' 
schemes](http://blog.talosintelligence.com/2017/03/necurs-diversifies.html).
