---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-05-04
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-05-04'
tags:
- breaches
- malware
- phishing
- ransomware
- reports
---


A large scale phishing attack was initiated this week, imitating an email to
share a document with Google Docs. If the user followed through, they [were
presented with a dialogue to authorize a fake Google Docs
app](https://duo.com/blog/gmail-oauth-phishing-goes-viral), allowing the
attacker gain unlimited access to the victim's email. For each victim, the
exploit used contacts to try to send to another round of victims. 

Meanwhile, Google Chrome has taken an additional step towards their goal of 
visibly indicating that all HTTP sites are "Not secure" in terms of the 
information you are sending. On the heels of January's change to label [sites 
over HTTP with password
fields](https://security.googleblog.com/2016/09/moving-towards-more-secure-web.html)
as "Not secure", they are not going to label all HTTP sites visited in [Incognito
mode](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/04/next-steps-toward-more-connection.html) 
as "Not secure", due to increased privacy expectations.

O'reilly and the Software Improvement group recently surveyed a number of
programmers on their company's secure code practices. While 69% of respondents
stated security requirements and 60% mentioned guidelines, most felt that [they
were not doing
enough](https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/the-alarming-state-of-secure-coding-neglect).
They also cited how security is not 'visible' making it hard to gain proper
traction when overall company goals are to ship new features and gain new
customers.

What is worse than a site that allows short passwords and returns them in 
plaintext when you forget them? Apparently it is a site that doesn't [ever allow
you to change the
password](https://arstechnica.com/security/2017/05/when-it-comes-to-password-security-greyhound-com-is-truly-awful/).

Intel processors with remote management features have recently [been found to
have remote exploit
flaws](https://arstechnica.com/security/2017/05/intel-patches-remote-code-execution-bug-that-lurked-in-cpus-for-10-years/).
This flaw, existing since 2010, is only accessible if Intel's Active Management
Technology is enabled, and the attacker is able to access port 16992 and 16993.
This means that remote attacks over the internet should be fairly rare, but
attacks on a local network, perhaps such as ublic wifi for a targeted attack,
are possible.

Another problem that has flown under the radar has been the existence of the
[Konni
RAT](http://blog.talosintelligence.com/2017/05/konni-malware-under-radar-for-years.html),
which Talos Intel discovered. Backtracking, they have unearthed 3 years of
activity across 4 campaigns, and document the evolution.

MalwareBytes provides details on the OSX.Dok malware, a sophisticated attack
that installs the means to [monitor and intercept all HTTP AND HTTPS
traffic](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/threat-analysis/2017/04/new-osx-dok-malware-intercepts-web-traffic/)
on a victim's computer. This allows an attacker to potentially harvest
credentials that a user over a connection they otherwise feel is secure. Apple
has already revoked the signing certificate the malware author used to sign his
app, meaning that the casual user will not be able to install. However,
MalwareBytes has found a second strain that installs a different backdoor, but
looks to be [from the same
author](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/threat-analysis/2017/05/another-osx-dok-dropper-found-installing-new-backdoor/).

Arbor Networks does a deep dive into the Ismdoor RAT, which communicates to its
C&C [using DNS AAAA (IPv6) queries and
responses](https://www.arbornetworks.com/blog/asert/greenbugs-dns-isms/) to hide
its activity.

Verizon's [2017 Data Breach
Report](http://www.verizonenterprise.com/resources/reports/rp_DBIR_2017_Report_en_xg.pdf)
has been released (now celebrating its 10th year!). Unsurprisingly, Ransomware
accounted for a large number of incidents and continues to be trending upwards.
Financial institutes are still the most popular target, but targets like
healthcare and education are seeing an uptick of attacks.

BleepingComputer rounds things out with an unfortunately [busy week in
Ransomware](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/the-week-in-ransomware-april-28th-2017-cerber-mordor-and-cve-2017-0199/),
including a big [update for
Cerber](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/cerber-ransomware-version-6-gets-anti-vm-and-anti-sandboxing-features/)
which includes a new encryption process and anti-VM/sandboxing features.
