---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-11-24
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-11-24'
tags:
- cryptography
- exploits
- malware
---

_LavaRand - Leveraging Real World Randomness_. Did you know that CloudFlare
harvests randomness from lava lamps as an entropy source? Using a real world
source of entropy, they augment the pseudo-random pool on their servers with
actual randomness. They’ve recently posted [this
article](https://blog.cloudflare.com/lavarand-in-production-the-nitty-gritty-technical-details/)
on their motivations behind going through the trouble to set this up.

_Fake Symantec Blog Spreading Malware_.  A fake security blog [attempting to
look like the Symantec
blog](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/threat-analysis/mac-threat-analysis/2017/11/osx-proton-spreading-through-fake-symantec-blog/)
has been discovered by researchers. The site has been taken down, but contained
a post to attempt to incent readers to download a ‘security tool’, which is
actually a variant of the Proton credentials stealer.

_Vulnerability Equities Process Transparency_. The Whitehouse has announced
additional transparency around the factors that play into whether or not
government agencies notify vendors about discovered vulnerabilities. Mozilla
feels it is a [step in the right
direction](https://blog.mozilla.org/netpolicy/2017/11/15/white-house-releases-new-vep-charter/)
but several severity researchers are skeptical of the announcement. Notable,
Bruce Schnier who suggests this is just [additional window
dressing](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2017/11/new_white_house_1.html)
and time will tell), Adam Shostack who points out the large list of threats
[which are not considered factors in the
VEP]https://adam.shostack.org/blog/2017/11/vulnerabilities-equities-process-and-threat-modeling/),
and Sophos Security points out that this year we have seen plenty of
non-disclosed vulnerabilities [stolen and
weaponized](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2017/11/20/us-intelligence-cant-break-vulnerability-hoarding-habit/).

_Session Recording Tools Scoop Up Excessive Data_. Use a service that records
what user’s are doing on your site (for analytics and usage review)? They may be
scooping up much more information than expected, since many of them [record all
keystrokes and mouse
clicks](https://freedom-to-tinker.com/2017/11/15/no-boundaries-exfiltration-of-personal-data-by-session-replay-scripts/),
including stuff that user’s may not actually intend to send to the site and in
some cases researchers observed these scripts scooping up passwords, credit card
numbers, and PII.

_New OWASP Top 10_. The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) has
released a new version of their [top 10
vulnerabilities](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/72/OWASP_Top_10-2017_%28en%29.pdf.pdf)
this year. Unsurprisingly, Injection attacks is still listed as the #1 risk for
web applications. However, we have 3 new entries.  The first is XML External
Entities (XEE) attacks, where XML parsers (in APIs, or otherwise) can
potentially contain instructions and load external content allowing for DoS
attacks or remote code execution.  The second is Insecure Deserialization, which
honestly feel very similar to injection and XEE, but targeted at object
de/serialization. In this scenario, attackers can target deserialization of
complex objects to try and invoke remote code execution.  Finally, we have
Insufficient Monitoring and Logging where not knowing what is going on greatly
decreases the reaction time of defenders and increases the likelihood of
successful exploitation by attackers.

_Leveraging Multiple Vulnerabilities To Achieve Exploitation_. Now that you have
familiarized yourself with the new OWASP top 10, read [this
article](https://blog.zsec.uk/rce-chain/) on how they leveraged a number of
these to chain their way to remote code execution.

_Github starts highlighting out of data software_. Github has taken a major step
forward in security by helping people know when they are [using software
packages that are out of date](https://github.com/blog/2470-introducing-security-alerts-on-github) 
('Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities' is #9 on the OWASP Top 10).
They've started with Ruby and Javascript, which covers 75% of projects with
detectable dependencies today.

_Misconfigured API access allows for data harvesting_. Security researchers have
discovered that many developers using the [Twilio messaging API have hard coded
credentials in their
apps](https://www.appthority.com/mobile-threat-center/blog/eavesdropper-mobile-vulnerability-exposing-millions-conversations/),
effectively making it possible for other apps to collect Twilio metadata without
a user noticing. At time of writing, this could impact more than 600 apps for
both Android and iOS. This extends to other APIs as well, such as [Amazon’s S3
access](https://www.appthority.com/mobile-threat-center/blog/eavesdropper-vulnerability-extends-amazon-cloud-storage-data/).

