---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-05-19
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-05-19'
tags:
- audits
- biometrics
- leaks
- malware
- ransomware
---

In the aftermath of WannaCry, there are a few important developments:
 * Australian government suggests that [ISPs should do more to protect
   customers](https://www.deepdotweb.com/2017/05/15/australia-considers-forcing-isps-block-digital-threats/)
   and their devices.
 * Other ransomware versions are [trying to spread using the same
   exploit](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/uiwix-ransomware-using-eternalblue-smb-exploit-to-infect-victims/).
 * A number of medical devices may [also be impacted by
   WannaCry](https://threatpost.com/patches-pending-for-medical-devices-hit-by-wannacry/125758/).
   Involved manufacturers are working on fixes, and remind customers to protect
   access to these devices.
 * Microsoft's March patch might have been prompted by the [NSA disclosing to
   Microsoft](https://arstechnica.com/security/2017/05/fearing-shadow-brokers-leak-nsa-reported-critical-flaw-to-microsoft/)
   ahead of the Shadowbrokers leak of the data.


If WannaCry wasn't bad enough, another IoT device has vulnerabilities which could
lead to [a botnet with over 185K
nodes](https://boingboing.net/2017/05/11/white-label-eschatology.html), and
Docusign has determined that a recent malware campaign that targeted their
customers was due to [a breach involving their customer list being
stolen](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2017/05/breach-at-docusign-led-to-targeted-email-malware-campaign/).

WikiLeaks has dumped more Vault7 information, the latest being [two malware
frameworks](https://threatpost.com/wikileaks-reveals-two-cia-malware-frameworks/125701/)
dubbed "AfterMidnight" and "Assassin". AfterMidnight is a play on "Gremlins", as
it is intended to allow for the running of small applications to do malicious
things to targets, and Assassin provides much of the same functionality.

Unfortunately, even more things leaked on the internet as [a code breaking
program](https://theintercept.com/2017/05/11/nyu-accidentally-exposed-military-code-breaking-computer-project-to-entire-internet/)
was found exposed to the public internet. A project between NYU, IBM and the
Department of Defense, "WindsorGreen" is an encryption cracking program intended
to run on specialized hardware. Experts that have reviewed the documents suggest
the computing power would eclipse most of the world's supercomputers in the
specific field of encryption. That being said, experts believe that modern key
strengths such as RSA 4096 are still orders of magnitude stronger.

Two security groups have finished [audits of the OpenVPN
codebase](https://threatpost.com/openvpn-audits-yield-mixed-bag/125694/). Both
teams found a number of vulnerabilities, which the OpenVPN team has already
fixed. Overall, they congratulated OpenVPN on their adherence to secure
development practices while also offering a few suggestions on how to improve
both the codebase and push forward best practices for security.

Checked that your router is up to date lately? I thankfully did several weeks
ago, grabbing new firmware that protects my Asus RT router from [a number of
security
vulnerabilities](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/40-asus-rt-router-models-are-vulnerable-to-simple-hacks/).

Both Edge and Chrome have flaws this week which allow credential leakage. Edge's
flaw allows the bypassing of the Same Origin Policy process, allowing a
determined attacker [to confuse the system and get credentials it otherwise
should not have access
to](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/edge-security-flaw-allows-theft-of-facebook-and-twitter-credentials/).
The Chrome bug is also a Windows bug which could allow an attacker to [obtain a
user's login
hash](https://threatpost.com/chrome-browser-hack-opens-door-to-credential-theft/125686/).

Still using fingerprints to unlock your phone? Researchers have recently figured
out how to make artificial fingerprint that will [unlock phones 25-65% of the
time](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/researchers-use-digitally-created-fingerprints-to-unlock-smartphones/), 
based on the fact that most fingerprint scanners only check a subset of your
finger.

The President signed a [Cybersecurity executive
order](https://community.rapid7.com/community/infosec/blog/2017/05/12/white-house-cybersecurity-executive-order-summary)
this week. Highlights include: prompting government agencies to adopt the NIST
framework and consolidate services for more effective management, increase
protections around critical infrastructure. Various groups are expected to
provide plans within certain intervals, making this a start.

400 new SLocker (Android Ransomware) variants were [discovered this
week](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/slocker-android-ransomware-makes-furious-comeback-with-400-new-variations/)
bringing up the total number of known variants to 3000.

Talos Intel has observed a new Ransomware spam campaign they call 'Jaff'. Taking
notes from Dridex and Locky, it uses a PDF with an embedded word doc to install
its malicious package. As always, they prepared a [detailed technical
breakdown](http://blog.talosintelligence.com/2017/05/jaff-ransomware.html)

Want to know even MORE about Ransomware? Troy Hunt now offers a [free
course](https://www.varonis.com/learn/introduction-to-ransomware/).

