---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-10-27
authors: 
- Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-10-27'
tags:
- botnets
- breaches
- disclosure
- internetofthings
- ransomware
- vulnerabilities
---

_China outpaces USA in terms of Vulnerability Disclosure_. When vulnerabilities
are disclosed, it looks like China [rounds up details
faster](https://www.recordedfuture.com/chinese-vulnerability-reporting/) than
the USA, especially in terms of uncoordinated releases, where the China National
Vulnerability Database has details almost 5.5X faster than the the US National
Vulnerability database. The difference? NIST does analysis and aggregation of
publically available and/or voluntarily submitted information, vs CNNVD’s more
proactive stance to monitor various outlets and produce details as quickly as
possible for companies to make educated decisions.

_Duhk, Duhk, Goose_. Another named vulnerability has made the rounds with the
existence of [DUHK](https://duhkattack.com/) (Don't Use Hard-coded Keys). DUHK
is made possible by the usage of hard coded (hence the name) encryption keys
used in a number of security devices, including a number of VPNs. However, the
firmware for these devices is usually available for download, allowing attackers
to extract the keys and then compute shared secrets and decrypt what should be
encrypted traffic.

_Google Likes To Play…. Dangerously_. Google has been dealing with a number of
Play store app issues over the last year. While they have taken a number of
steps to deal with malicious apps they have also just invited further scrutiny,
this time by [starting a bug bounty program specifically for certain
apps](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/10/introducing-google-play-security-reward.html)
in the app store. Interesting Android App developers are eligible to opt in to
this program, to further advance Google’s goal of increased Android app
security.

_HaveIBeenPwned API Hackathon_. Troy Hunt of HaveIBeenPwned has challenged
people to [build something interesting with his
APIs](https://www.troyhunt.com/do-something-awesome-with-have-i-been-pwned-and-win-a-lenovo-thinkpad/).
Check out the comments for some interesting things that have already been
completed!

_Massive PII Data leak from South Africa_. Troy also disclosed a large leaked
dataset containing PII information. [His
article](https://www.troyhunt.com/questions-about-the-massive-south-african-master-deeds-data-breach-answered/)
details the various things he did (and help he received) in identifying the
likely source of data (South Africa), as well as details on how bad it is (PII
and records for children and teens).

_CERT Guide To Vulnerability Disclosure_. CERT has released a massive 121 page
guide on coordinated vulnerability disclosure. Thankfully, Hacker [provides a
summary](https://www.hackerone.com/blog/Your-TLDR-Summary-of-The-CERT-Guide-to-Coordinated-Vulnerability-Disclosure).
The summary of the summary is that the document goes over how to ensure that the
least amount of harm is done to the public, while minimizing the amount of harm
attackers can provide. Ultimately, it is beneficial for vendors to run
responsible disclosure programs, to ensure that researchers can report findings
to the appropriate channels, confident that there will be a response, allowing
vendors to quickly resolve rather than researchers feeling they should create a
media sensation to drive fixes.

_Bad Rabbit_. The ransomware making big headlines this week was [Bad
Rabbit](http://blog.talosintelligence.com/2017/10/bad-rabbit.html). Using a fake
flash update to get itself on victim computers, Bad Rabbit uses the
EternalRomance vulnerability to try to spread laterally in a network, as well as
using a set of hardcoded credentials to try to brute force SMB filesystems.

_IoT Botnets still threatening_. Checkpoint security provides [details on a new
IoT botnet](https://research.checkpoint.com/new-iot-botnet-storm-coming/) they
have been tracking, believing millions of bots may have been recruited providing
plenty of DDoS capability. Further news seems to indicate that individuals with
access to this botnet may be [gearing up to weaponize
it](https://threatpost.com/hackers-prepping-iotroop-botnet-with-exploits/128608/).
