---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-12-08
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-12-08'
tags:
- exploits
- internetofthings
- malware
- reports
- wordpress
---

_Card Skimmers On The Rise_. I've previously posted about credit card skimmers.
According to FICO, credit and debit card compromise has increased 70% YoY.
Worried? Read [this
article](https://www.thesimpledollar.com/card-skimmer-scams-are-on-the-rise-heres-how-to-avoid-them/)
on how to avoid and be aware when using your card.

_Dirty COW not yet out to pasture_. Last year, a major vulnerability called
Dirty COW made the rounds, as a local privilege escalation problem in Linux
distributions (including Android). Now, more than a year later, researchers have
discovered that an edge case not covered by the original patch [allows the same
bug to be
exploited](https://threatpost.com/flaw-found-in-dirty-cow-patch/129064/). A
patch is already available, and the flaw can also be mitigated with changes
config, but the fact that it was patched incorrectly for over a year should be
worrying.

_Wordpress Hacks Leave Keyloggers_. Hacking Wordpress sites are great for
attackers to do things like host malware, run cryptocurrency miners, and now
[run keyloggers to try and harvest usernames and
passwords](https://blog.sucuri.net/2017/12/cloudflare-solutions-keylogger-on-thousands-of-infected-wordpress-sites.html).
Read the article for Sucuri's findings.

_Rundown on OSX 'root' password problem_. Apple recently fixed an issue where a
user could log in to the root account with a blank password (even remotely!). If
you want to know the nitty gritty of _why_, check out Objective-See's [deep dive
on the subject](https://objective-see.com/blog/blog_0x24.html).

_Old Exploit for Serial-To-Ethernet devices still very prevalent_. Many old
serial devices have been hooked up the internet via Serial to Ethernet
connectors manufactured by a number of companies. A set of these devices from
Lantronix has an exploit (since 2012!) which returns the telnet password in 
plaintext and,  since these devices have not been patched (since 2012!), means 
[another several thousand devices exploitable on the
internet](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/thousands-of-serial-to-ethernet-devices-leak-telnet-passwords/).

_New Mirai Variant Potentially Leverages 0-day_. Yet another variant of Mirai
has made waves this week, with a sudden takeover of over 100K devices. This wave
of exploits appears to be targetting a port on Huawai devices [which is not
known to have an
exploit](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/12/100000-strong-botnet-built-on-router-0-day-could-strike-at-any-time/),
on top of a username/password list containing 65K entries.

_Andromeda Botnet Shut Down_. However, while Mirai's family thrives, Andromeda's
family dies as law enforcement agencies coordinated with industry leaders to
[shut down the Andromeda
botnet](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/world-police-shut-down-andromeda-gamarue-botnet/).
This botnet has been alive since 2011 and used to deliver malware, including 80
different malware families in the last 6 months alone.

_Uber breach sparks punitive bill_. With the news of Uber covering up a break
coming to light, some US Sentators have pushed forward the "Data Security and
Breach Notification Act", intended to unify breach notification laws across
states. It also, however, entails jail time for those that [willfully conceal
breaches](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/new-but-old-us-bill-introduces-prison-time-for-execs-who-conceal-data-breaches/)
which may have impacted Uber's decision to try to [disguise their breach payout
as a bug
bounty](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2017/12/08/uber-disguised-100000-hacker-payoff-as-bug-bounty-claims-reuters/).

_Verizon releases 2017 Data Breach Investigation Report_. Now in it's 10th year,
Verizon has again released an in [depth look at
breaches](http://www.verizonenterprise.com/resources/reports/rp_DBIR_2017_Report_en_xg.pdf).
This year also includes a [summary
report](http://www.verizonenterprise.com/resources/reports/rp_DBIR_2017_Report_execsummary_en_xg.pdf)
to give some highlights, which include:
 * Unsurprisingly, malware is used in just over half of all breaches
 * Still unsurprising, 43% including a social/phishing aspect
 * 61% of companies are those with less than 1000 employees
 * With the wake of many breaches involving leaked passwords, password stuffing
   attacks being a cause of breaches has gotten a sharp incline. The ease of
   which this works makes it just too easy for attackers.

Check out the full report if you are interested in details broken out by industry!

