---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-11-03
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-11-03'
tags:
- exploits
- internetofthings
- malware
---

_CyberSecurity Month Wraps Up_. And WeLiveSecurity has finished up their
expanded coverage of Twitter conversations. You can check out [Part
3](https://www.welivesecurity.com/2017/10/24/ncsam-twitter-chats-part3/),
wherein they cover “CyberAwareness” and [Part
4](https://www.welivesecurity.com/2017/10/26/ncsam-twitter-chats-part4/) where
they talk about the Internet of Things.

_Hardware Hacking_. Speaking of the Internet of Things, this week brings us an
interesting article from a Pentester, going over his view on [hardware
hacking](https://medium.com/@LargeCardinal/pentesting-hardware-42cf915c4b21).
Covering a number of attack vectors we have seen over the last year (and no
surprise that outdated software is #1 in the list), but also covers more
interesting stuff for those that have physical access.

_Terrifying USB Find_. I know this week was Halloween, but this news about [a
USB drive containing plaintext files on Heathrow Airport’s
security](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2017/10/31/london-heathrow-airports-security-laid-bare-by-one-lost-usb-stick/)
was downright terrifying. Items included, but are not necessarily limited to,
details about security badges, patrol routes, and even travel routes for the
Queen and other traveling dignitaries.

_Google’s Recaptcha Broken_. Google’s system to try and distinguish people from
robots [has been broken
again](https://threatpost.com/googles-recaptcha-cracked-again/128690/). This
time, researchers have leveraged the improvements in speech to text engines to
solve ~85% of captchas in ~5.4 seconds on average.

_“Smart” Locks_.  Amazon has recently announced a [locking
system](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/security-world/2017/10/please-dont-buy-this-smart-locks/)
that would allow people to deliver things straight into your home. This is a
risky proposition, and MalwareBytes gives some good reasons why, including
security vulnerabilities and accidentally getting locked out of your own home.

_Chrome to remove Public Key Pinning_. Chrome developers have signaled their
intention to [remove Public Key
Pinning](https://threatpost.com/google-to-ditch-public-key-pinning-in-chrome/128679/)
(PKP) support from the browser in 2018.  PKP was intended to be a method in
which an organization can specify which HTTPS certificated are used to serve the
site. However, in practicality they have been difficult to roll out, with a
misconfiguration making it possible to have an outage until the specified
timeout. Google now advocates the usage of certificate transparency, which they
have made mandatory, to detect miss-issuance of certificates and protect users
from them.

_Dell Loses Control of Update Domain_. Earlier this month, we learned that Dell
lost control of a domain designed to [help customers recover from
malware](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2017/10/dell-lost-control-of-key-customer-support-domain-for-a-month-in-2017/).
Ironic in that it was taken over by malware devs and likely used to serve the
same exploits it was meant to help customers deal with.

_More Malicious Chrome Extensions_. The latest appears to be spread by phishing
attacks, and is used to [harvest any data posted to
forms](https://threatpost.com/malicious-chrome-extension-steals-data-posted-to-any-website/128680/),
like usernames, passwords and people’s Facebook updates.  _Malware Analysis Via
API Calls_. MalwareBytes has seen more obfuscation of malware making static
analysis harder for malware devs. Rather than trying to reverse engineer the
outer layer, they go into a technique of using [dynamic analysis of system api
calls](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/threat-analysis/2017/10/analyzing-malware-by-api-calls/)
doing.
