---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-02-09
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-02-09'
tags:
- botnets
- exploits
- internetofthings
- malware
---

Kaspersky details [a sophisticated malware attack
](https://securelist.com/blog/research/77403/fileless-attacks-against-enterprise-networks/),
where attackers used a variety of free tools to load programs directly into
memory and grant remote access. This allowed attackers to obscure their 
identity, as well as made it harder for their work to be detected. Kaspersky
states this is getting more common, making memory forensics something to
consider.

For some more benign hacks due to devices exposed to the internet with default
passwords:

IP streamers used to play music for radio stations [was compromised to play a
specific song for 15
minutes](https://www.engadget.com/2017/02/03/hackers-use-streaming-devices-to-make-radio-stations-play-fdt/).
Rapid 7 also did some extra digging and provides
[details](https://community.rapid7.com/community/infosec/blog/2017/02/06/on-air-broadcasting-insecurity).

One prankster caused a number printers to print out messages [telling users that
their device was part of a
botnet](https://hackaday.com/2017/02/04/popular-printers-pwned-in-prodigious-page-prank/).

Also a few unauthenticated API exploits were noticed this week:

The first is in McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator, which would allow an attacker to
[dump information from the
server](http://blog.talosintel.com/2017/02/vulnerability-spotlight-mcafee-epolicy.html),
or pretend to be a client in order to dump information about the client.

Honeywell SCADA controllers had a number of bugs which [allowed an attacker to
retrieve a password in plain 
text](https://threatpost.com/honeywell-scada-controllers-exposed-passwords-in-clear-text/123562/)
and then use it to log in.

Sophos disclosed a subtle bug in the new Wordpress API system that would allow
someone without privileges to [update any blog
post](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2017/02/03/critical-wordpress-update-fixes-zero-day-flaw-unnoticed/).
This vulnerability has been patched, but after the word got out plenty of
Wordpress instances [were
defaced](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/over-67-000-websites-defaced-via-recently-patched-wordpress-bug/).

In other news:

SSL hits a big milestone, where now more than 50% of user traffic (according to
telemetry data from Firefox) [is now
encrypted](https://threatpost.com/https-hits-50-percent-traffic-milestone/123512/).
This is, in large part, due to more large players encrypting all of their
traffic by default, but indicates that using SSL only is becoming the norm,
rather than the exception.

Etsy has an in depth article on the many steps they make to ensure [Private TLS
certificates they use are
secure](https://codeascraft.com/2017/01/31/how-etsy-manages-https-and-ssl-certificates-for-custom-domains-on-pattern/),
which is interesting for any system where you need to keep information
particularly secure.

Ars Technica has an article on how [Google took on
Mirai](https://arstechnica.com/security/2017/02/how-google-fought-back-against-a-crippling-iot-powered-botnet-and-won/)
by admitting KrebsOnSecurity.com to Project Shield. The article provides some
additional insight into what sorts of attacks they were seeing, once Google took
over.

Meanwhile, Mirai apparently received an update, now [targeting
Windows!](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/mirai-gets-a-windows-version-to-boost-distribution-efforts/)
Infected Windows agents are used to figure out passwords of other systems and
spread the botnet. Also apparently part of it are breaking into databases,
presumably to steal information.

Following the success of bug bounty programs for public companies, reports
indicate that some dark net markets [are doing the
same](https://www.engadget.com/2017/02/04/dark-net-black-markets-bug-bounty-programs/).

Checkpoint indicates they are seeing a [resurgence of
Slammer](http://blog.checkpoint.com/2017/02/02/sql-slammer-comeback/), the worm
that was primarily active in 2013 and has been largely dormant since.
