---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-03-02
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-03-02'
tags:
- ddos
- evasion
- exfiltration
- exploitation
- malware
- phishing
- ransomware
- securityfail
---

The big news this week is, of course,
[Cloudbleed](https://blog.cloudflare.com/incident-report-on-memory-leak-caused-by-cloudflare-parser-bug/).
Troy hunt provides his [own take on the
issue](https://www.troyhunt.com/pragmatic-thoughts-on-cloudbleed/). Of note, he
points out the total impact is not measurable. While Cloudflare was able to
measure 0.00003% of requests, since the bug leaked information from unrelated
sites it is unable to measure how many sites were actually impacted. He also
points out that 0.00003% is still a huge volume of traffic, given that
Cloudflare deals with trillions of requests per month, meaning millions of
requests potentially leaked data. However, not all Cloudflare users are at risk,
simply due to the fact that not all Cloudflare customers have sensitive data.
Plenty of informational only sites use Cloudflare services, meaning there was no
sensitive information to leak for those sites.
Cloudflare has [their own follow up on
impact](https://blog.cloudflare.com/quantifying-the-impact-of-cloudbleed/).

Duo Security posts a summary of the ['The Human Exploitation Kill
Chain'](https://duo.com/blog/rsac-2017-the-human-exploitation-kill-chain) talk
from the RSA Conference. The talk goes over the various points of a phishing
attack that we should attempt to layer security, vs just training users on
identification. While humans are important, it is also important for them not to
have enough individual power to allow an attacker to pivot through an entire
system.

Yahoo has followed up on the report of forged browser cookies by [announcing up
to 32 million accounts were
impacted](https://arstechnica.com/security/2017/03/marissa-mayer-forgoes-bonus-after-yahoo-botches-hack-investigation/).

605 websites were defaced recently, after [attackers achieved access to the
machine they were all hosted
on](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/hacker-group-defaces-hundreds-of-websites-after-hacking-uk-hosting-firm/).
Any data that those sites were storing are likely to have been stolen as part of
the attack.

For those familiar with the Hak5 suite of tools such as the RubberDucky, Hak5
has announced the [BashBunny](https://hakshop.com/products/bash-bunny). It is
essentially a 'bring your own network MitM attack platform', ala the PoisonTap
that was [demonstrated last
year](https://seanstoppable.github.io/2016/11/17/security-roundup-2016-11-17),
just with the convenience and form factor closer to the RubberDucky, and
including a full linux machine that allows a pentester to use all their normal
security tools. Hak5 has done a handy [how-to 
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CvI_mrQYaF8) going into detail.

Netsparker goes into depth about how lack of access control let [anyone take
over the Maiain Support
system](https://www.netsparker.com/blog/web-security/missing-function-level-access-control-vulnerability-maian-support-helpdesk/).
While users were limited from seeing things due to roles, the backend apis
themselves were not authenticated, potentially allowing someone who doesn't even
have login privileges to the application to access data.

With a recent article on data exflitration via drones and blinking LEDs, Naked
Security provides a recap of [exotic exfiltration
methods](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2017/02/23/drones-can-steal-data-from-infected-pcs-by-spying-on-blinking-leds/).
While many are not immediately practical without close access to a machine, they
are still fairly interesting. Some highlights: Using ultrasound, smartphone
sensors, measuring fan sounds, and thermal cameras.

In some fun news, one researcher breaks Google's Recaptcha mechanism by [using
Google's Speech recognition
API](https://east-ee.com/2017/02/28/rebreakcaptcha-breaking-googles-recaptcha-v2-using-google/)
and the audio ReCaptcha

Following up on last week's breach notification news: 

A [discussion at
RSA](https://threatpost.com/policy-experts-push-to-make-vulnerability-equities-process-law/123883/)
argued that the US Government's Vulnerability Equities Process (VEP) should not 
be voluntary, but mandatory. The VEP has largely been criticized as allowing
government agencies to stockpile, rather than disclose, vulnerabilities they
find. Generally, the community is supportive of the government aiding research
and finding vulnerabilities, and are pushing for more disclosure to raise the
bar on security.

MalwareBytes has an article on [What to do after recovering from a
cyberattack](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/101/2017/02/what-to-do-after-recovering-from-a-cyberattack/).
Important in the article is to promptly inform customers. In regards to the
Australian breach disclosure laws,

Troy Hunt writes a [critical article about 
it](http://windowsitpro.com/troy-hunts-security-sense/security-sense-australia-s-mandatory-data-breach-disclosure-laws-are-prote).
In this article he points out that disclosure is far from mandatory, allowing
companies up to 30 days to investigate, allowing them to not inform customers if
there is an 'administrative burden', and suggesting that not ever breach should
result in notification as that might result in 'breach fatigue'. Troy points out
that this just gives attackers that much extra harm to use any data they
retrieved, furthering harm to any individuals that had their data stolen.

Google has been building tools that will eventually leverage their [Key
Transparency](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/01/security-through-transparency.html)
initiative. The latest is
[E2Email](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/02/e2email-research-project-has-left-nest_24.html),
a browser extension that makes it easier to use PGP keys for emails in web
browsers.

Interested in attack mitigation techniques and circumvention? Endgame security
[discusses the Chakra
exploit](https://www.endgame.com/blog/chakra-exploit-and-limitations-modern-mitigation-techniques)
in Windows 10 and Edge and how it avoids some security features therein.

Exposed databases being compromised and held from ransom has continued, with
[Mysql being the latest
victim](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/database-ransom-attacks-have-now-hit-mysql-servers/).
In all cases, these attacks could be mitigated by following simple security
practices, such as not having databases on the internet and using strong
passwords for database accounts.

Bleeping Computer also reports that [Necurs may have added a DDoS
component](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/worlds-largest-spam-botnet-adds-ddos-feature/).
Necurs is a botnet that produces spam, and BleepingComputer covers why this
addition doesn't make much sense.

Speaking of Botnets, Bruce Schnier has a long [post on the
subject](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2017/03/botnets.html), covering
the growth of the Internet of Things based botnets.

A major version of Dridex has been [detected in the
wild](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/dridex-becomes-first-malware-family-to-integrate-atombombing-technique/)
and is apparently the first malware strain to make use of the 
[Atombombing](http://blog.ensilo.com/atombombing-a-code-injection-that-bypasses-current-security-solutions)
technique of code injection that EnSilo published last October.
