---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-06-23
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-06-23'
tags:
- internetofthings
- malware
- mobile
- ransomware
---

This roundup made possible with contributions from my co-worker [Michael
Cereda](https://michaelcereda.com/).

Layers upon layers upon layers. This is the first thing that comes to mind
after reading Sophos’ [recent
report](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2017/06/20/sophoslabs-analysis-why-the-surge-in-word-docs-hiding-ransomware/)
on old tricks turned new for malware. While many malware campaigns involve
embedded objects with malicious payloads, Sophos has noticed a number of
strains which host these embedded objects on remote servers. Among other
things, this makes it easier for someone to shut down a malware campaign, or
perform upgrades on the payload after the spam campaign has launched.

McAfee also discovered new tricks in the PinkSlip malware. What sets this apart
from its peers is the fact that it will set some [infected hosts as remote
proxies](https://securingtomorrow.mcafee.com/mcafee-labs/mcafee-discovers-pinkslipbot-exploiting-infected-machines-as-control-servers-releases-free-tool-to-detect-disable-trojan/),
allowing it to be used to further obfuscate where a C&C is located.  This is
set up independent of the trojan, meaning any machines that were previously
cleaned up potentially still have this unwanted guest on their machines.

Google’s engineers have announced many anti-malicious software detection news
lately, and security researchers continue to unearth more of it. Last week
involves the discovery of
[Xavier](http://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/analyzing-xavier-information-stealing-ad-library-android/),
a malware strain which silently steals personal and financial data while the
user of the infected app is trying to change the ringtone or boosting the speed
of the device. Xavier is actually the evolution of the AdDown malware, which
first hit the scene in 2015 with ‘Joymobile’, but has learned several new
obfuscation tricks including downloading instructions remotely and dynamic
analysis evasion.
 
Researchers have discovered a new way to gain root access on several unix based
operating systems. Dubbed [‘Stack
Clash’](https://blog.qualys.com/securitylabs/2017/06/19/the-stack-clash), this
exploit involves the attacker ‘clashing’ the memory system that keeps track of
running programs with another memory region, potentially overwriting
instructions and executing unexpected code. At time of writing, impacted OSes
have patches.
 
Man In The Middle Attacks allow someone to see all your traffic. This could be
mitigated by sending traffic encrypted, but what if someone is [intercepting
traffic](https://www.elie.net/blog/security/understanding-the-prevalence-of-web-traffic-interception)
by using “trusted” certificates? Security gateways and anti-virus sometimes do
this in order to ‘inspect’ web traffic for malicious signals.  Researchers
recently worked with various industry partners to try and fingerprint this type
of interception, seeing upwards to 10% of communications falling into this
bucket, with a sizable portion of it not backtrack-able to security products.
Even security products doing this is a problem, as security problems can mean
this is abuse, or bad crypto implementations mean that communication is less
secure than it would be otherwise.
 
More Internet of Things stories this week including: 

Duo Security [“drills
in”](https://duo.com/blog/bug-hunting-drilling-into-the-internet-of-things-iot)
to the security of an internet enabled drill. They take you through the
discovery process, including checking out the associated app as well as the
drill itself. While they unfortunately found hard coded passwords, and the
ability to tamper with the Geolocation security feature, overall they found a
number of security features like encryption and security headers in API
responses, meaning that perhaps there is hope for the Internet of Things yet.

TP-Link joins the list of vendors to [patch end of life
products](https://threatpost.com/tp-link-fixes-code-execution-vulnerability-in-end-of-life-routers/126416/),
fixing a bug that would allow remote account takeover in one of their older
router models.  This is a positive step forward, as research continues to
demonstrate more and [more vulnerable
devices](http://blog.ptsecurity.com/2017/06/practical-ways-to-misuse-router.html),
and attackers shifting from simplistic approaches of brute forcing passwords
(which still works way too often), to more complex [vulnerabilities in router
software
itself](https://www.pentestpartners.com/security-blog/what-did-mirai-miss-making-a-better-bigger-botnet/).
 
Unfortunately, we are halfway through the year and Kaspersky labs has already
seen [twice the
amount](https://securelist.com/honeypots-and-the-internet-of-things/78751/) of
IoT based malware as all of last year. Based on the number of stories we’ve
covered already, this will likely get worse before things get better.

Case in point, more Vault 7 documents have been released showcasing
[CherryBlossom](https://wikileaks.org/vault7/#Cherry%20Blossom) a framework for
pushing malicious firmware to your router.  After the infection, routers can be
controlled remotely using a browser-based interface and can be used for
different missions that include scanning mail addresses, chat usernames, MAC
addresses and VOIP numbers.

