---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-04-14
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-04-14'
tags:
- internetofthings
- leaks
- mobile
- ransomware
---

Bleeping Computer does a great writeup of the new CAA DNS record, which allows
domain providers to specify [which SSL providers are allowed to issue
certificates](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/https-certificate-issuance-becomes-more-secure-thanks-to-new-caa-standard/).
In a recent vote, the majority of browser and Certificate Authorities voted to
implement this standard by September 8, 2017, setting the expectation that
Certificate Authorities will check whether they are allowed to issue a
certificate for a domain.

Of course, this only helps when an organization remains in control of their DNS.
In an impressive accomplishment, hackers managed to take over a bank's [entire
digital
footprint](https://www.wired.com/2017/04/hackers-hijacked-banks-entire-online-operation/),
redirecting users and potentially even ATM transactions to their infrastructure.
Since they controlled the actual domain names, they were able to quickly obtain
legitimate SSL certificates, to make the attack all the more transparent to
users. Given the totality of the takeover, the bank was not even able to send
legitimate emails to their customers, and had to rely on the registrar returning
control. Total duration of takeover: ~5 hours.

Vault 7 news continues this week as the
["Grasshopper"](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/wikileaks-reveals-grasshopper-cias-builder-for-windows-malware/)
documents detailing windows installer laced malware was released. The installer
performed a number of checks to reduce the liklihood of installing on a system
that might be able to detect the payload. Some news stories of the tools being
[linked to known
hacks](https://www.symantec.com/connect/blogs/longhorn-tools-used-cyberespionage-group-linked-vault-7)
have started to surface.

Coincidentally, the Shadow Brokers are also back [releasing the password to
another cache of NSA files](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2017/04/shadow_brokers_.html).

Threatpost provides an interview with the Google Chrome Security Team, where
they mention that a number of instabilities/security problems are [due to other
third party software installed on
systems](https://threatpost.com/chrome-tackles-friendly-fire-to-keep-browser-safe/124824/).
Whether that be bundled software from an OEM, bad Certificate Authority, or
third party plugins.

We've talked about malicious apps before, but did you know that apps could
[leak information from other
apps](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2017/04/when-apps-collude-to-steal-your-data/522177/)?
Either internationally, or unintentionally, apps are able to access data in use
by other apps, allowing a combination of apps exfiltrate data. Most common
appears to be location data, where a location aware app might make data
available to other applications.

The newest IoT malware is running around, and this one [tries to brick all the
devices](https://hackaday.com/2017/04/08/brickerbot-takes-down-your-iot-devices-permanently/).
On the one hand, dead devices means fewer botnets, on the other plenty of
consumers that are going to be surprised when their devices stop working.

Of course, another security researcher found an easy way [to gain access to his
smart
tv](https://www.netsparker.com/blog/web-security/hacking-smart-tv-command-injection/).

Running a SEIM to analyze security events? Make sure to lock it down! One
security researcher was [recently
shocked](https://threatpost.com/researcher-warns-siems-are-weak-link-in-network-security-chain/124864/)
by some SEIM systems using default credentials and hosting a bevy of
information.

Another security firm has traced back attacks to [residential routers which have
been
infected](https://www.wordfence.com/blog/2017/04/home-routers-attacking-wordpress/).
The specific router in question is vulnerable to an attack on a non-typical
port, causing the security researchers to suggest ISPs filter out attacks of
this nature before it reaches their customers.

An amusing strain of ransomware made the rounds this week [requiring users to
score a high score in a video
game](https://arstechnica.com/gaming/2017/04/do-you-want-to-play-a-game-ransomware-asks-for-high-score-instead-of-money/)
to retrieve their files.

BleepingComputer provides a good ransomware article, showing another [open source
ransomware getting
weaponized](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lmaoxus-ransomware-another-case-of-weaponized-open-source-ransomware/),
and demonstrating how working examples make it easier for future developers.

