---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-07-06
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-07-06'
tags:
- ddos
- encryption
- letsencrypt
- malware
---

Scott Helme has been analyzing various internet security mechanisms over the
last several years. His latest focus is TLS security, and he provides a great
writeup on ['Why TLS Revocation is
Broken'](https://scotthelme.co.uk/revocation-is-broken/). From why Certificate
Revocation Lists (CRLs) are too cumbersome and Online Certificate Status
Protocol (OCSP) is better for revocation, but worse for privacy, Scott covers
the current problem and highlights a number of new options that can further
mitigate man in the middle attacks against TLS communications.

Let’s Encrypt hits another milestone by having reached [100 MILLION generated
SSL
certificates](https://letsencrypt.org/2017/06/28/hundred-million-certs.html).
Given that Let’s Encrypt has only been in operation for a year and a half, this
is a remarkable achievement. In that same time period, HTTPS adoption has
increased 18% (essentially 1% every month!) to reach 58%, no doubt at least
partially due to Let’s Encrypt’s free service. They have also announced they
will start [issuing wildcard
certificates](https://letsencrypt.org//2017/07/06/wildcard-certificates-coming-jan-2018.ht)
in the new year, citing it as a much requested feature, and their hope that it
will help drive adoption of TLS closer to the 100% goal.

The end of this quarter actually saw a [large amplification
attack](https://blog.cloudflare.com/ssdp-100gbps/) on Cloudflare’s
infrastructure, crossing 100Gbps and lasting 38 minutes. SSDP is used for
discovery of UPnP devices, and allows the query for ‘all’ devices.  Since SSDP
happens over UDP, the return address can be forged, allowing an attacker to make
queries and redirect responses to their victim. We’ve previously covered a
number of problems with UPnP, and this is just one more example of why it should
be disabled. Cloudflare provides a number of other recommendations to
eliminate/reduce the efficacy of these attacks.

A security researcher recently aided in making packages served from node package
manager (npm) more secure. The researcher was able to access enough accounts to
be able to [hijack 14% of all
packages](https://github.com/ChALkeR/notes/blob/master/Gathering-weak-npm-credentials.md),
some of which are in use by millions of users. The majority of these accounts
were not brute forced, but used involved password reuse from other accounts that
were available in one of the many leaks in the last year (check your
passwords!), by users publishing these passwords in their packages accidentally
or accidentally uploaded to places like Github. 17% of accounts were brute
forced, using embarrassingly bad password lists (one password was literally
“password”). NPM has tightened password policies, as well as monitoring password
based endpoints, and is working to roll out even more security improvements
intended to increase account security and mitigate risk.

This week celebrated the 50th anniversary of the ATM. We’ve previously shared
stories on ATMs and skimmers, and this week Brian Krebs gives us an update on
the [current state of ATM skimmer
technology](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2017/06/so-you-think-you-can-spot-a-skimmer/).

For those that love to dive into malware breakdowns, Palo Alto Networks provides
one on
[OceanLotus](https://researchcenter.paloaltonetworks.com/2017/06/unit42-new-improved-macos-backdoor-oceanlotus/).
OceanLotus is a Mac backdoor and interesting for a few reasons, including a
custom binary communication protocol with its C2s.

Finally, researchers have published a paper detailing [information leak in
libgcrypt's implementation of RSA-1024
keys](https://threatpost.com/libgcrypt-sliding-right-attack-allows-recovery-of-rsa-1024-keys/126675/),
resulting in excessive information leaking and allowing researchers to
reconstruct the key in use. At time of writing, the library has issued a patch,
and many linux providers have provided updates and/or other layers of
protection.

