---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-01-05
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-01-05'
tags:
- conferences
- history
- malware
- pgp
- ransomware
- spam
- tls
---

33c3 happened at the end of the year and [videos are already
up](https://media.ccc.de/b/congress/2016). Writers for Hackaday attended and did
a [number of writeups](https://hackaday.com/2016/12/30/33c3-works-for-me/).

At the same time, the FDA announced [guidance on managing medical
devices](http://blogs.fda.gov/fdavoice/index.php/2016/12/managing-medical-device-cybersecurity-in-the-postmarket-at-the-crossroads-of-cyber-safety-and-advancing-technology/)
in a cybersecurity world. Among the suggestions include 'having a way to monitor
devices for vulnerabilities', which seems in and of itself a potential exploit
vector? I am sure 2017 will have more news on this topic.

Filippo Valsorda, currently on the Cloudflare Security Team, published an op-ed
on ["Why he is giving up on
PGP"](http://arstechnica.com/security/2016/12/op-ed-im-giving-up-on-pgp/). Major
difficulties include ease of use, lack of trust that it is working 'correctly',
and suspicion of use of long term keys. This was followed by a rebuttal by Neal
Walfield, an engineer who works on GnuPG, who point out a number of ways to
mitigate Filippo's problems, and some future proposals that might increase
usability.

Slate has a good history lesson on the 2011 Notar breach, and how [TLS security 
has changed in the last several years as a
result](http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/future_tense/2016/12/how_the_2011_hack_of_diginotar_changed_the_internet_s_infrastructure.html).
Minimum security requirement approvals for Cert provides issued by the
Certificate Authority Security Council, Google's Certificate Transparency
program, browsers being more willing to de-list bad actors, and more.

Troy Hunt did an 'Ask Me Anything' for HaveIBeenPwned's 3rd Birthday at the
start of December, and recently published the [video
online](https://www.troyhunt.com/been-pwneds-birthday-live-stream-ama/). He also
has an article around how responsible disclosure of account breaches should
happen, using the recent [Etherium forum
breach](https://www.troyhunt.com/the-ethereum-forum-was-hacked-and-theyve-voluntarily-submitted-the-data-to-have-i-been-pwned/)
as an example.

A year review of CVEs in 2016 give [some interesting data
points](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/android-was-2016s-most-vulnerable-product/).
Android OS had the most reported security vulnerabilities for a single product
this year, while Oracle has the most CVEs for an individual vendor.

Talos Security goes in depth on [hailstorm
spam](http://blog.talosintel.com/2016/12/in-eye-of-hailstorm.html), where
spammers launch an email campaign so quickly that traditional detection methods
only kick in after the campaign is finished. They go on to describe research
into detecting these type of campaigns more quickly, by monitoring DNS traffic.

Google announced [Project Wycheproof](https://security.googleblog.com/2016/12/project-wycheproof.html), 
a collection of unit tests designed to expose weaknesses in implementations of 
several cryptographic algorithms. To date, they have uncovered 40 security bugs,
which they are working with vendors to fix.

Similarly, Duo Labs has released a [tool to do fuzz testing for Microsoft Edge
and HTTP/2](https://duo.com/blog/http2-peach-pit-for-microsoft-edge).

More and more malware kits appear to be [turning to
steganography](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/steganography-is-very-popular-with-exploit-kits-all-of-a-sudden/)
to deliver payloads and instructions via image files. This includes the 
[DNSChanger exploit](https://www.onthewire.io/new-malvertising-campaign-exploits-home-routers-changes-dns-entries/),
which attempt to use the victim's browser to identify and compromise their own
router. The attacker then tries to expose the router to the internet 
(to allow further control/compromise) as well as can manipulate the user's 
traffic. A similar concept has also been found on Android, with the [Switcher
Malware](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/switcher-android-malware-hacks-tp-link-routers-changes-dns-settings/)
trojan.

MalwareTech wrote up a great article on how [Open Source Malware hurts the
industry](https://www.malwaretech.com/2016/12/open-source-ransomware.html).
Arguments include: lowering the bar of entry to those with limited technical
experience, faster evolution, and an increase in overall volume of ransomware.
Other interesting observations: they point out that ransomware just does a
user operation - encrypting files. This makes detection perhaps a bit harder, if
antivirus is trying to distinguish between 'good' and 'malicious' encryption.
Open Source Ransomware is typically being written in languages that malicious
users are not actually writting malware in, thus not benefitting a lot in terms
of evolving analysis.

Check Point joined the ["No More Ransomware"](http://www.nomoreransom.org/)
project, and promptly identified [two new ransomware variants and built
decryptors](http://blog.checkpoint.com/2016/12/29/found-two-new-ransomware-families-built-decryptors/).

[Cerber did an
update](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/cerber-ransomware-doesnt-delete-shadow-volume-copies-anymore-prioritizes-office-docs/)
on what files it does and does over the holidays. primarily targeting Microsoft
Office documents, as well as potential bitcoin locations.
