---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-12-01
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-12-01'
tags:
- awareness
- breaches
- ddos
- malware
- spyware
---

_DDoS Attacks get more sophisticated_. Cloudflare has an interesting blog post
about a [decrease in network level DDoS
attacks](https://blog.cloudflare.com/the-new-ddos-landscape/). Instead, they are
seeing an increase in application layer attacks, trying to force servers to do
expensive actions repeatedly to knock them offline, rather than overwhelming
them with raw traffic. Cloudflare discusses the options of caching and rate
limiting as methodologies by which to mitigate some of this attack vector.

_Google In a Tizi over spyware_. Google has found another set of spyware apps in
their appstore. The backdoor, which they named Tizi, has apparently been around
since 2015 but only infecting 1300 devices. They provide a [transparent
post](http://security.googleblog.com/2017/11/tizi-detecting-and-blocking-socially.html)
about how they identified, and what steps were taken to mitigate this malicious
app.

_Malware Goes Encrypted_. Researchers following the Terror Exploit Kit report
that it has [started encrypting all
traffic](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/threat-analysis/2017/11/terror-exploit-kit-goes-https-all-the-way/),
leveraging free certificates. This is an attempt to hide their random URLs, only
ips will be available to monitoring software.

_Two Unfortunate Breaches_. Two breaches this week with different reaction
profiles. The first was Uber, who was hacked last year, had 57 million driver
and rider accounts stolen, and then proceeded to [pay off the
hackers](https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2017/11/uber_data_hack.html) and
not disclose the breach. This may have violated several laws for not disclosing,
as well as destruction of the data. On the other side, Imgur notified users of a
breach [impacting 1.7 million
users](https://threatpost.com/imgur-confirms-2014-breach-of-1-7-million-user-accounts/129006/).
Despite being notified over the Thanksgiving weekend, Imgur managed to review
the data, reset user accounts, and publically disclose in 25 hours and 10
minutes.

_Expensify leaks sensitive information_. In terms of leaking sensitive
information, Expensify collected a lot of flack this week when it was made
apparent that they were [outsourcing transcription of receipts to Amazon's
Mechanical
Turk](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/11/expensify-acknowledges-potential-privacy-problem-by-calling-it-a-feature/).
In some cases, this included full names and addresses of individuals.

_Mirai makes waves again_. An exploit for another modem resulted in a brief
[resurgence in Mirai
activity](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/11/internet-paralyzing-mirai-botnet-comes-roaring-back-with-new-strain/),
as attackers quickly moved to leverage the exploit, taking over up to 100K
devices in under 60 hours. The particular variant has currently been stopped,
but the modem in question still remains vulnerable.

_Firefox to team up with HaveIBeenPwned_. Firefox has announced their intent to
[integrate HaveIBeenPwned warnings into the
browser](https://blog.nightly.mozilla.org/2017/11/22/these-weeks-in-firefox-issue-28/). 
This means that when users visit a site that is part of a breach of user data
they will [receive notifications right in the
browser](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2017/11/28/involved-in-a-data-breach-firefox-to-test-alerts-in-the-browser/),
rather than have to sign up for a service, or be aware of news.

_Deep Dive into MuddyWater APT_. And for those that love deep dives into
malware, Reaqta provides an in depth look into
[MuddyWater](https://reaqta.com/2017/11/muddywater-apt-targeting-middle-east/), 
an APT that was targeted at individuals in the middle east.
