---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-11-10
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-11-10'
tags:
- malware
- mobile
- phishing
- securityfail
---

_Digitally Signed Malware Surprisingly Common_. Code signing is a method where a
legitimate certificate is used to sign an application such that operating
systems will trust it. However, in some cases we have seen malicious packages
that are correctly signed. Originally tied to nation state attacks, and criminal
enterprises, researchers have shown that this has [actually happened more often
than
expected](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/11/evasive-code-signed-malware-flourished-before-stuxnet-and-still-does/),
having discovered 189 instances going back to 2003. 109 of the digital
certificates used to sign these malicious apps are still valid. Some of these
appear to have previously signed benign software, meaning that an organization
may have lost control of their private keys.  Related research have also
published results on broken trust in digital key signing and Anti Virus.  The
most shocking is that something signed (even if using an expired key, or if the
signature doesn’t match), will cause a number of Anti Virus programs to mark the
files as benign, abusing trust. But perhaps more interesting is the ability to
hijack signatures, which one researcher [has
demonstrated](https://pentestlab.blog/2017/11/08/hijack-digital-signatures-powershell-script/).

_Mobile Pwn2Own Competition Results_. Pwn2Own is a yearly competition in which
hackers compete to discover zero days in browsers. Last year it expanded into
Virtual Machines, and this year it has its own competition for Mobile Devices. A
large number of bugs were discovered for devices including the Samsung Galaxy S8
and the iPhone 7, all of which have been privately disclosed to the
manufacturers to create patches. You can read up on details for [day
one](https://www.zerodayinitiative.com/blog/2017/11/1/the-results-mobile-pwn2own-day-one)
and [day
two](https://www.zerodayinitiative.com/blog/2017/11/2/the-results-mobile-pwn2own-2017-day-two).

_Spam And Phishing Q3 Report_. Want to stay on top of the latest spam and
phishing techniques? Kaspersky has released their [Q3
observations](https://securelist.com/spam-and-phishing-in-q3-2017/82901/).
Highlights are messages trying to coerce people into cryptocurrency get rich
quick schemes and free stuff (from flights to phones).

_Account Takeovers_. Google has [released
research](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/11/new-research-understanding-root-cause.html)
into the root cause of account takeovers. While not particularly surprising that
a fair portion of it is due to credential reuse (use unique passwords
everywhere!), a fair amount is gathered via phishing and keyloggers. Phishing
attacks appear to increasingly try to collect other information, to help
circumvent other protections.

_Companies Actively Trying To Work Around Browser Security Warnings_. What’s
worse than a company not securing a form over HTTPS? Actively working around
browser protections to try to pretend things are all right. Check out this…..
[Interesting
story](https://www.troyhunt.com/bypassing-browser-security-warnings-with-pseudo-password-fields/)
of the amount of effort one company put into evading browser checks rather than
just integrate HTTPS.

_Size Matters Not_. At least in terms of your risk to exploit. Regardless of
what your website actually does, it is valuable to an attacker in [terms of
resources](https://blog.sucuri.net/2017/11/why-attackers-hack-small-sites.html).
Even if you don't have anything to directly steal, an attacker can leverage your
infrastructure to run phishing attacks, malvertisements, or spam with less risk
to themselves (and more risk to you!).

_DarkVNC Deep Dive_. And for those that like deep dives, check out [this
article](https://reaqta.com/2017/11/short-journey-darkvnc/) going over an
exploit to infect someone with 'DarkVNC', a malicious VNC client so attackers
can view and control a machine remotely.
