---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-01-18
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-01-18'
tags:
- encryption
- investigation
- malware
- mobile
- privacy
- ransomware
- transparency
---

Google has announced their intent to [start recording 'Key
Transparency'](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/01/security-through-transparency.html).
In a sense, it is a key verification idea in a similar sense as
[Keybase](https://keybase.io), while also preserving the privacy of the user. A
writeup of the idea is available [on
Github](https://github.com/google/key-transparency/blob/master/docs/overview.md).

Mobile malware is a large problem, with the likes of Gooligan and Hummingbad
making the rounds. Google has written an article on a technique they use to
detect apps with this kind of malware, using a combination of their Potentially
Harmful Apps (PHA) detection and [monitoring for devices that stop checking for 
these PHAs](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/01/silence-speaks-louder-than-words-when.html).
Cross referencing downloaded apps with devices that stop reporting makes it
possible to detect which apps are potentially performing malicious behavior and
automatically flagging for review.

Brian Krebs has been investigating the person behind the Mirai Botnet and
believes he [has figured out the real world
identify](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2017/01/who-is-anna-senpai-the-mirai-worm-author)
of the person responsible. Note: this is a long read, going over his entire
investigation. It is a really interesting read on the entire DDoS ecosystem.

With last week's MongoDB landgrab reaching the end, it looks like attackers have
[shifted towards publically accessible ElasticSearch
clusters](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/mongodb-hijackers-move-on-to-elasticsearch-servers/).
Duo Security also points out that this [shouldn't be a
surprise](https://duo.com/blog/why-the-mongodb-ransomware-shouldnt-surprise-anyone),
given that reports of how much exposed data has been reported multiple times
over the course of the last two years. Plenty of other datastores are still
exposed, and Redis was already a victim last year. What's next after
ElasticSearch? BinaryEdge gives us a brief [history of DB
ransomware](http://blog.binaryedge.io/2017/01/18/the-compendium-of-database-ransomware/)
and says there are early signs that Hadoop is the next target. BleepingComputer
[points out some vandalized Hadoop
servers](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/database-ransom-attacks-hit-couchdb-and-hadoop-servers/)
as well as some CouchDB servers with ransom notes already.

Threatpost has a story on the Carbanak malware family, which is apparently using
[Google sheets as a C&C
mechanism](https://threatpost.com/carbanak-using-google-services-for-command-and-control/123169/),
having nodes update sheets to exfiltrate data, and read sheets to accept new
commands. This joins Telecrypt as another malware strain that leverages 3rd
party services rather than manage their own C&C nodes.

[SchmooCon](http://shmoocon.org/) has wrapped up, and some interesting news to 
come out of it. Did you know that [Squirrels cause more infrastructure
outages](http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/01/whos-winning-the-cyber-war-the-squirrels-of-course/)
than cyberattacks? Apparently some cyberattacks are actually mis-attributed
animal outages.

SHA-1 Certificates should be on their way out this year, as [browsers are poised
to point out certificates that are not on
SHA-2](https://threatpost.com/sha-1-end-times-have-arrived/123061/). In the
Alexa top million, apparently only 536 sites do not offer SHA-2 at this time. 
Caught in the crossfire are all those devices that are hard to upgrade, but 
use SSL certificates. Things like routers and PoS/banking system.

Sucuri has a roundup of their [December Lab
Notes](https://blog.sucuri.net/2017/01/labs-notes-monthly-recap-dec2016.html),
which detail a number of CMS related security problems.

Checkpoint has released their [Malware Most Wanted
update](http://blog.checkpoint.com/2017/01/16/malware-takes-a-christmas-break-in-decembers-global-threat-index/),
and there is a lot of movement on the board. Conficker is still at the top, and
overall malware attacks were down over the holidays.

In other ransomware news, One of the C&C servers for Cerber was recently 
[compromised by security researchers](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/misconfigured-server-gives-insight-into-cerber-ransomware-operation/).
They observed 700 downloads of Cerber during their observation window, which
they extrapolated to 8400 downloads per day.

Also, Endgame Security goes on an [in depth analysis of a ransomware
strain](https://www.endgame.com/blog/dude-wheres-my-ransomware-flare-challenge)
for the latest [Flare On Challenge](http://www.flare-on.com/).

