---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-12-28
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-12-28'
tags:
- bugbounties
- conferences
- encryption
- mobile
---

_34C3 in full swing_. The 34th Chaos Communication Conference is in full swing.
You can check the
[schedule](https://events.ccc.de/congress/2017/Fahrplan/schedule/1.html) for the
remaining days, or to check out the [recordings](https://media.ccc.de/c/34c3)
that are already available. Hackaday has a writeup of some interesting talks
[they have
attended](https://hackaday.com/2017/12/27/34c3-the-first-day-is-a-doozy/), the
more interesting one so far being ['Squeezing a key through a carry
bit'](https://media.ccc.de/v/34c3-9021-squeezing_a_key_through_a_carry_bit)
where one spelunker leveraged a bug in a crypto implementation to extract an
entire private key one bit at a time.

_Hack The World results_. HackerOne has announced this year's results to their
[Hack The
World](https://www.hackerone.com/blog/Hacking-Planet-Hack-World-2017-Recap)
hackathon. This year 700+ bug bounty hunters submitted enough vulnerabilities
to clear just over $750K in bounties.

_Breaking HSTS and HKPK in modern browsers_. HTTP Strict Transport Security
(HTST) and HTTP Public Key Pinning (HPKP) are modern security functions for
browsers. Security researchers recently published [ways to abuse how browsers
use
these](http://blog.en.elevenpaths.com/2017/12/breaking-out-hsts-and-hpkp-on-firefox.html),
to prevent protections, including mitigating protections at all or even
rendering the browser unusable.

_Ad trackers caught stealing usernames_. At least two ad trackers were caught
using hidden forms to [harvest
usernames](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/web-trackers-exploit-flaw-in-browser-login-managers-to-steal-usernames/)
from sites they were deployed on. Being able to harvest usernames would allow
them to build a bigger profile and match users more reliably across sites, but
also creates a bigger trove of information to steal, as well as could be used to
harvest passwords.

_Credit card theft targets smaller chains_. Follow Brian Krebs story of a new
batch of credit cards being stolen and [tracking them back to impacted
businesses](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2017/12/4-years-after-target-the-little-guy-is-the-target/).
One of the targets happens to be a small restaurant chain in Texas, which Krebs
tracked down before the company was aware of the credit card fraud, meaning that
the cards were sold well before consumers could take any action.

_TLS version negotiation delaying TLS 1.3_. TLS 1.3 unexpectedly had new drafts
at the end of this year, when the expectation was that the spec was essentially
finalized. The cause? [Problems in TLS version
negotiation](https://blog.cloudflare.com/why-tls-1-3-isnt-in-browsers-yet/), 
where a sizable portion of servers (including network inspection devices) failed
in unexpected ways when clients attempted to negotiate. This is, in essence, the
same problem that hampered TLS 1.2s rollout, and the cause of the Poodle
downgrade attack. The newer TLS 1.3 drafts have implementation details to avoid
doing security downgrades (as was the solution for TLS 1.2), but the fact that
this has been repeated has already caused organizations to start thinking about
better ways to do TLS negotiation (or at least identifying problems well in
advance).

_Lastpass Authenticator app contained surprise security bypass_. A security
researcher published their discovery that accessing certain activities directly
in Lastpass' Authenticator app would [allow someone to bypass pin/fingerprint
protection](https://hackernoon.com/lastpass-authenticator-app-is-not-secure-77b9743c3007).
The app has been fixed since the public disclosure.

_AppSec Radar_. In tech, some companies use a 'technology radar' to track what
technologies their engineers should adopt, be trialing, or stop using. One new
project is experimenting on doing the same with an [organizations
applications](https://github.com/MichelleEmbleton/appSecRadar), factoring in
security concerns.
