---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-12-15
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-12-15'
tags:
- certificates
- encryption
- exploits
- malware
- phishing
- ransomware
---

_Phishing abuses psychology of HTTPS_. A recent survey from PhishLabs indicates
that 80% of respondents believe that seeing the lock indicating a website is
served over HTTPS means that a site is legitimate or somehow 'safe', despite the
fact that it just means that your communication is encrypted. Phishers are
abusing this misconception by [increasingly using HTTPS for their
sites](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2017/12/phishers-are-upping-their-game-so-should-you/),
with 25% of known phishing sites now using HTTPS (up from 3% last year). Don't
forget to educate your users on how to avoid phishing in the first place!

_New Android vulnerability abuses update mechanism_. Researchers have found out
how to abuse Android's app update mechanism to [execute unverified
code](https://www.guardsquare.com/en/blog/new-android-vulnerability-allows-attackers-modify-apps-without-affecting-their-signatures).
Based on how signatures are calculated  for applications, an attacker could
append a malicious app to an existing one and trick the installer into
installing the second app with whatever privileges are available to the first.

_Mailsploit, email vulnerabilities for all_. With email having been around for
45 years and spam and malicious content being a known, one would hope that the
basics have been hammered down pretty heavily here. However, one security
researchers has manages to trigger an exploit leading to code execution. Dubbed
['Mailsploit'](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2017/12/11/mailsploit-using-emails-to-attack-mail-software/),
this actually exploits the `From:` field in an email by abusing unicode
handling. This results in issues like web based clients being subject to XSS
attacks and spoofing of email addresses, the later of which could conceivably
also bypass DMARC protections.

_ROBOT attack_. Another witty acronym attack in the form of
[ROBOT](https://blog.rapid7.com/2017/12/13/attention-humans-the-robot-attack/)
(Return Of Bleichenbacher's Oracle Threat), in which an attacker can extract
private session keys from TLS sessions. Practical applications are an attacker
being able to pull out encryption keys you are using to communicate to thinks
like a VPN or a secure website, and decrypt your traffic. Specifically, this
targets PKCS#1v1.5 with RSA encryption, and a mitigation factor would be to
stop using this setup.

_Deep dive into Napolean ransomware_. For those that have been missing a
technical deep dive into malware, Malwarebytes delivers the goods with a look
into
['Napolean'](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/threat-analysis/2017/12/napoleon-ransomware/) -
a variant of the Blind ransomware that they recently discovered.

_Debugger could be leveraged into a keylogger_. Debug code in touchpad drivers
for [multiple HP
laptops](https://threatpost.com/leftover-debugger-doubles-as-a-keylogger-on-hundreds-of-hp-laptop-models/129127/)
could have been turned on to use as a keylogger. While admin access would need
to be available to enable, this attack vector would be one that would have
avoided anti-virus scanners, since it is an expected driver.

_Extended Validation Certificate Abuse_. A few recent studies have discovered
flaws in the Extended Validation certificate issuance process. One used stolen
identities (from the many personal data breaches that are available) and another
set up a fake company with the same name as a legitimate company (since no one
checks for collisions in EV certs), resulting in [legitimate looking EV
certificates being
issued](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/extended-validation-ev-certificates-abused-to-create-insanely-believable-phishing-sites/).
With the total cost at under $200, and questions minimal, this is potentially
more viable attack in the upcoming months.
