---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2017-10-13
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-10-13'
tags:
- exploits
- magento
- ransomware
---

_Credit Unions Serving Malicious Ads_. Equifax issues continue this week, with
one of their ad providers [serving
malware](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/10/equifax-website-hacked-again-this-time-to-redirect-to-fake-flash-update/).
While it is true that Equifax itself [was not
hacked](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/10/12/equifax-says-it-might-have-been-breached-again.html),
this further erodes trust if their supply chain is putting visitors at risk. Not
to be left out, Transunion was also noticed to have [the same
problem](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/10/equifax-rival-transunion-also-sends-site-visitors-to-malicious-pages/). 

_Supply Chain Attack Rundown_. Attacks like the above leverage the supply chain
of services that a vendor uses. Malvertisements are nothing new, but supply
chain attacks are increasing in both sophistication and frequency. Crowdstrike
provides a [brief
rundown](https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/software-supply-chain-attacks-rise-undermining-customer-trust/)
for anyone needing to catch up. 


_KnockKnock (but quietly)_. A brute force attack (but a sneaky one) against
Office 365 accounts was discovered by researchers.
[KnockKnock](https://duo.com/blog/evasive-brute-force-attacks-target-office-365-accounts),
as it is called, was a targeted attack against a specific set of accounts for a
specific set of companies using Office 365. The attack appears to have been
spread out and coordinated across a wide number of ips. Attackers also singled
out senior and/or long term employees, perhaps hoping they would be more likely
to have access to sensitive information.

_Attackers abuse overdraft functionality to milk ATMs_. Follow along with [this
story](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/10/wave-of-cyber-bank-heists-in-former-soviet-states-netted-40m-in-real-cash/),
of attackers that social engineered their way into a bank’s infrastructure,
stuck around, and then used their privileges to create new accounts and withdraw
millions of dollars by abusing overdraft protection settings.

_DNS requests could compromise your machine_. In this week's terrifying news, a
Windows CVE was just patched that allowed a malicious DNS response to trigger
remote access to someone's machine. This applies in a number of scenarios, like
using internet from a coffee shop, or from the airport. Full details can be
found
[here](https://www.bishopfox.com/blog/2017/10/a-bug-has-no-name-multiple-heap-buffer-overflows-in-the-windows-dns-client/).

_Magento eCommerce Roundup_. Lots of Magento related news this week, including
Sucuri’s deep dive into a [credit card stealing malware
ring](https://blog.sucuri.net/2017/10/credit-card-stealer-investigation-uncovers-malware-ring.html),
this Detectify blog about [how bad patching cadence
is](https://blog.detectify.com/2017/10/10/thousands-of-vulnerable-magento-web-stores-out-there/)
for some Magento users,and this announcement about PoC code for [two patched
exploits](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/pocs-for-two-magento-bugs-released/).

_Disqus customer data exposed. Company promptly addresses_. Disqus was made
aware customer data [being available this
week](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2017/10/10/learning-from-the-disqus-data-breach/),
compromising 17.5 million accounts from 2007 to 2012.  Overall, the company has
excelled in their response. In under 24 hours, Disqus had accepted a report,
validated the findings, reset user passwords and contacted customers. Their
expedient behavior and transparency has [blown away Troy
Hunt](https://www.troyhunt.com/disqus-demonstrates-how-to-do-data-breach-disclosure-right/),
owner of HaveIBeenPwned.com and overall raised the bar for how to handle breach
disclosures. Of course, user's should make sure they are not reusing their
passwords, which would leave them open to a [credential stuffing
attack](https://blogs.akamai.com/2017/10/data-breaches-and-credential-stuffing-dont-get-tkod.html).

