---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2018-04-26
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2018-04-26'
tags:
- malware
- networks
- vulnerabilities
---

_"Hacker" accesses non-public data in public portal_. The most dissapointing
news lately is about how a young Canadian realized that the Nova Scotia Freedom
of Information Act site has an enumerable url parameter. Said individual wrote a
script to download a bunch of files, and was later arrested due to said files
being deemed 'sensitive' and erroneously uploaded in a public matter. This has
led many people to be critical, pointing out that this wasn't the 19 year old's
fault so much as the fault of the owners of the system (again, portrayed as
public information). Troy Hunt has a [good
writeup](https://www.troyhunt.com/enumerationis-enumerating-resources-on-a-website-hacking/),
including some history of similar accusations of "unauthorized use of a
computer".

_BGP Hijack of Amazon DNS_. Malicious attackers somehow used an Ohio based ISP
to advertise several hundred IP addresses, many of them addresses for AWS' DNS
offering. The ultimate target was [hijacking cryptocurrency website
MyEtherWallet](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/04/suspicious-event-hijacks-amazon-traffic-for-2-hours-steals-cryptocurrency/),
making off with $150K over 3 hours. Other AWS customers were potentially
impacted as well, but current scope is still unknown.

_Webstresser de-stressed_. Attack-as-a-service platform Webstresser was taken
offline the other day after a [coordinated
effort](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2018/04/ddos-for-hire-service-webstresser-dismantled/)
several law enforcement agencies. Interestingly, this has resulted in a number
of other malicious services down, as they appear to have been resellers of
Webstresser.

_How OSX malware can take screenshots_. After some reports of malware families
taking screenshots of desktops on OSX, one security researcher has dived in.
[Reverse engineering the technique
independently](https://objective-see.com/blog/blog_0x2C.html), as well as
digging in to actual malware samples, he finally suggests ways in which this
type of activity could actually be detected.

_IPv6 as a backdoor_. Think you've locked down your local network? Have you
checked your IPv6 setup? Trustwave points out that modern devices [configure
IPv6
automatically](https://www.trustwave.com/Resources/SpiderLabs-Blog/Using-IPv6-to-Bypass-Security/)
and the same rules that you have set up to protect services on IPv4 interfaces
may still be open on IPv6.

_Drupal suffers multiple high severity vulnerabilities_. Last month was
Drupalgeddon 2, but now Drupal has announced another [highly critical
vulnerability](https://www.drupal.org/sa-core-2018-004) which impacts all
versions of Drupal, going so far as to provide patches for unsupported versions
of the CMS. Unlike Drupalgeddon2, this vulnerability was immediately seized upon
and [is currently being exploited in the
wild](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/hackers-dont-give-site-owners-time-to-patch-start-exploiting-new-drupal-flaw-within-hours/).

_Steganography new tool on the block_. Security researchers warn that
steganography, the act of hiding data in other files, is increasingly being
deployed by malicious actors. This technique is being used to [avoid monitoring
solutions](https://threatpost.com/use-of-stegware-increases-in-stealth-malware-attacks/131293/)
by making payloads look like images rather than the malicious package they
actually are.
