---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2018-01-04
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2017-01-04'
tags:
- atms
- breaches
- cryptography
- q&a
- threatmodeling
---

_CPU architecture vulnerabilities plague all_. The big news this week is a
series of [vulnerabilities for many modern
CPUs](https://security.googleblog.com/2018/01/todays-cpu-vulnerability-what-you-need.html),
including Intel (who fared the worst in the news), AMD, and ARM. The
vulnerabilities allow malicious users to read memory they would not normally be
able to, allowing them to do thinks like harvest passwords and encryption keys.
Even worse, this breaks out of sandboxes such that an exploit on a virtual
machine could read memory from other virtual machines on the same host. For
those interested, you can now read the [technical
details](https://googleprojectzero.blogspot.com/2018/01/reading-privileged-memory-with-side.html).

Major hardware as a service providers like Google and Amazon have already
suggested they have instituted corrections to their systems, while operating
system providers have declared that patches to protect against these flaws are
forthcoming. Microsoft has unfortunately discovered some [problems with AV
vendors](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4072699/important-information-regarding-the-windows-security-updates-released)
and their proposed patch.

Mozilla has indicated that this type of attack is potentially [possible from the
browser](https://blog.mozilla.org/security/2018/01/03/mitigations-landing-new-class-timing-attack/)
and are implementing features to mitigate. Chrome already has additional
sandboxing features that are labelled experimental, but that they plan to roll
out in an upcoming major release.

_2017 Breaches in review_. Troy Hunt has done an annual retrospective of his
2017, which of course [includes stats from
HaveIBeenPwned.com](https://www.troyhunt.com/2017-retrospective/). 2017 was
pretty sad, with a 50% increase in the number of breaches from all breaches
previous to 2017, and total number of records more than doubling from 2 billion
to 4.8 billion.

_Threat Modeling Tools for 2018_. Does part of your job involve threat modeling?
Then you may be interested in this post by Adam Shostack enumerating some
[interesting new threat modeling
tools](https://adam.shostack.org/blog/2017/12/threat-modeling-tooling-from-2017/)
developed in 2017.

_Hacker Q&A With EdOverflow_. EdOverflow is the person behind the
[security.txt](https://securitytxt.org/) RFC to make a robots.txt equivalent for
hacking targets and contact information. HackerOne has a
[Q&A](https://www.hackerone.com/blog/Hacker-QA-EdOverflow) with him about his
background in security and his experience with bug bounty programs.

_TLS 1.3 could improve IoT security_. Cloudflare points out how TLS 1.2 adds a
lot of overhead for communication, to the point where IoT protocols become much
more heavy. However TLS 1.3 [improves on
this](https://blog.cloudflare.com/why-iot-is-insecure/) considerably, reducing
the number of round trips to make TLS more palatable. Additionally, new
algorithms use smaller, more secure keys, which allows for low memory devices to
be more likely to use them.

_Interesting defense against ATM skimmers_. We love/are horrified by reading
about ATM skimmers. This week's story comes with a twist in that it is a
[defense against current ATM skimmer
attacks](https://hackaday.com/2018/01/02/when-a-skimmer-isnt-a-skimmer/). Many
ATM skimmers are still overlays, so one ATM owner printed their own card overlay
so that fraudsters would have a rough time deploying their own. The author of
the article finds the concept interesting, and extrapolates that to making each
system have a degree of custom variability to thwart this type of attack.
However, since the thing is (currently) 3D printed, it looks sketchy in and of
itself and may cause users to turn away from valid ATMs.

_Trackmageddon_. Another alarmingly named issue is making the rounds with the
name [Trackmageddon](https://0x0.li/trackmageddon/). Involving a number of GPS
tracking services for vehicles, this allows unauthorized and unauthenticated
users api access to obtain information like location history, phone numbers, and
vehicle IMEI numbers, though the researchers also found photo and audio files.
Researchers later learned this might actually have been [reported in
2015](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2015/12/11/hundreds_of_thousands_of_engine_immobilers_hackable_over_the_net/),
but that means more than 100 sites are still vulnerable.

