---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2018-03-22
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2018-03-22'
tags:
- bittorrent
- browsers
- competitions
- hardware
- internetofthings
- malware
- vulnerabilities
---

_Pwn2Own 2018 Results_. This year's Pwn2Own competition - where browser and
virtual machine vendors challenge hackers to break their protections - [has
concluded](https://www.zerodayinitiative.com/blog/2018/3/15/pwn2own-2018-day-two-results-and-master-of-pwn),
and like previous years a number of exploits have been discovered in major
browsers, resulting in a grand total of $267K in bounties being paid out across
the two days.

_BitTorrent software victim of supply chain attack_. The latest reported supply
chain attack has occured against [BitTorrent client
Mediaget](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/03/malware-attack-on-400k-pcs-caused-by-backdoored-bittorrent-app/)
resulting in 400K machines being infected in just 12 hours. The attack was
unsuccessful as Windows Defender picked up on the cryptominer and prevented the
install.

_Burying your head in the sand_. In what appears to be a case of willful
ignorance, check out this story about a company who [appears to be ignoring news
about their data being
exposed](https://www.databreaches.net/he-tried-to-tell-you-youre-leaking-data-even-after-you-stupidly-blocked-him/).
Allegedly, the company in question is making it as hard as possible for someone
to disclose, even going as far as to block them on Twitter.

_Chrome Extension designed to thwart CPU sidechannel attacks_. Researchers
that have contributed to CPU sidechannel investigation (including Rowhammer,
Meltdown, and Spectre have used their findings to identify several categories
these attacks exploit and then [build a defense for
them](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/chrome-extension-protects-against-javascript-based-cpu-side-channel-attacks/).
Released as the browser extension 'Chrome Zero', the application intercepts
javescript and rewrites it before it gets interpreted, attempting to try to
neutralize any side channels that could be exploited.

_More IoT Vulnerabilities_. A number of high valued CVEs have been issued for [a
number of IP enabled security
cameras](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/firmware-updates-released-for-security-camera-dumpster-fire/).
The flaws have such far reaching consequences that the manufacturer has opted to
release an update to fix them, despite some of the products actually being end
of life.

_Breaking into encrypted external hard drives_. I found this article of [one
user's hobby of breaking into encrypted hard
drives](https://syscall.eu/blog/2018/03/12/aigo_part2/)
fascinating. This is one of those external hard drives that has hardware
encryption and keypads to unlock the device, and the interested party here
figured out how to actually pull the pin from the hardware.

_Cryptocurrency hardware wallet defeated by teenager_. In a similar story, a
cryptocurrency wallet was reported to have security flaws that could allow
attackers to install custom software on it, and this was [discovered by a 15
year
old](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2018/03/15-year-old-finds-flaw-in-ledger-crypto-wallet/).
The flaw stems from the fact that the device has both a secure processor and an
insecure processor, but since the two can (and have to!) communicate potential
allows atttackers to siphon off keys.

_Bug Bounty Bonanza_. Lots of prominent bug bounty news lately, starting with
Microsoft announcing a big bounty for [CPU flaws like Spectre and
Meltdown](https://www.hackread.com/microsoft-bug-bounty-program-meltdown-spectre-flaws/),
with a bounty of up to $250K. Second, Box has announced updates to their
Vulnerability Disclosure Program (VDP), simplifying their guidelines [to bring
simplicity and clarity to the
process](https://blogs.dropbox.com/tech/2018/03/protecting-security-researchers/)
and better protect white hats from potential legal threats. Finally, Netlfix has
announced their [own public bug bounty
program](https://medium.com/netflix-techblog/netflixbugbounty-ae3bf4489def),
after running a VDP for a number of years.
