---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2018-04-19
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2018-04-19'
tags:
- fraud
- history
- malware
- mobile
- vulnerabilities
---

_RSA attendee list exposed_. Attended RSA? A subset of your data turned out to
be decryptable by [reverse engineering the mobile
app](https://twitter.com/svblxyz/status/987044025122336774) and grabbing the
sqlite database from a publically accessable api endpoint. This is apparently
similar functionality to [their 2014 mobile
app](https://twitter.com/0xmchow/status/986806246991908865).

_Android patch gap_. The android ecosystem already suffers from lags in security
patches, due to a fragmented OS and manufacturer ecosystem. Now security
researchers have found that even when manufacturers apply patches, they may [not
include all security
updates](https://www.wired.com/story/android-phones-hide-missed-security-updates-from-you/).
In some cases, this appears to be deliberate, with at least one vendor changing
patch numbers without actually updating code, potentially misleading users.

_A day in the life of a CISO_. While no two days are ever quite the same Cory
Scott, CISO of LinkedIn, attempts to put together [what an average day as a CISO
is like for
him](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/day-life-linkedin-ciso-cory-scott).

_Abusing Google Tag Manager for fun and profit_. Google Tag Manager lets site
admins create custom scripts they can reference on their site for loading.
Sucuri goes over how an attacker with write privileges could subtly [load
malicious
scripts](https://blog.sucuri.net/2018/04/malicious-activities-google-tag-manager.html)
by copying your script, adding their own content, and then changing content on
your site. This assumes they are able to modify content on your site, but with
the number of CMSes with exploits...

_Microsoft Outlook bug exposes account information_. A large bug has been found
in Microsoft Outlook previews, where previews of RTF documents that happen to
have remote samba content will helpfully attempt to reach out to the server,
leaking user information like IP Address, windows domain, username, machine
name, and a [session password hash which an attacker could break to get a user's
password](https://www.hackread.com/microsoft-outlook-bug-expose-windows-credentials/).

_The early internet lacked security because..._ Believe that the early internet
did not have security built in because of 'open networks' and 'inherent trust'?
You may want to fact check against [the US export regulations against
cryptography](https://gettys.wordpress.com/2018/04/09/mythology-about-security/).
Engineers were essentially torn between adoption and interoperatibility or
having all their systems being restricted by export control. Can you imagine a
world in which the US had its own network, European nations another, etc? And
you think getting on wi-fi at an airport is bad NOW...

_Botnets kept on their toes_. Two prominent botnets have had their work cut out
for them, as researchers have focused on identifying and defanging. The first is
[Smoke Loader](https://www.spamhaus.org/news/article/774/), which Microsoft has
spent considerable time providing countermeasures for, and the malware authors
trying to develop new workarounds. The second is
[EITest](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/researchers-take-down-network-of-52-000-infected-servers-distributing-malware/)
a major botnet used to redirect users to malware and tech support scams has had
key C&C infrastructure taken over, effectively dismantling the entire operation.

_A study of login abuse_. Akamai recently unveiled some research into
[fraudulent login
activity](https://blogs.akamai.com/2018/04/part-2-the-dark-side-of-apis.html)
for API based login activity. This type of login is largely service to service.
Their research indicates that 30% of all api login requests they observed are
fraudulent.

_More abuse of Facebook data_. Security researchers found that malicious scripts
could abuse the [login with
Facebook](https://freedom-to-tinker.com/2018/04/18/no-boundaries-for-facebook-data-third-party-trackers-abuse-facebook-login/)
functionality to harvest user data, including name, email address and profile
photo. In one case, the data was accidentally made available to any javascript
running on a site.

_2018 Tax Fraud Shenanigans_. Brian Krebs points out some new 'fun' for tax
fraud. His
[article](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2018/04/when-identity-thieves-hack-your-accountant)
contains not only a story of a CPA who had their account compromised for weeks
(and thus a fair number of his clients having their returns stolen), but also an
extension of IT Support fraud - tax refund fraud.
