---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2018-04-12
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2018-04-12'
tags:
- hardware
- malware
- phishing
- reports
- socialengineering
- vulnerabilities
---

_The 'convenience' of a bluetooth credit card_. Who would have imagined that
wirelessly enabling credit cards would be a problem? Several 'consolidated'
credit cards have hit the market in the last few years and now researchers have
[broken into
them](https://hackaday.com/2018/04/08/cracking-a-bluetooth-credit-card/). In
particular, the FUZE card can be broken into with a only seconds of physical
access (like, when you hand it over to pay), where credit card details can be
downloaded over bluetooth as long as the card remains in range.

_Phishing attacks can leverage email handling discrepencies_. Did you know that
Gmail ignores the `.` character in email addresses? A software engineer
discovered this the other day when they [received an unexpected from
Netflix](https://jameshfisher.com/2018/04/07/the-dots-do-matter-how-to-scam-a-gmail-user.html)
that a credit card had been declined. Only it wasn't their credit card, but
someone else's account with a `.` in the email address. Was this an honest
mistake? Or potentially a new scam to try to collect accounts being paid off by
unsuspecting people?

_Harmless social quiz, or tactical information harvesting?_ Have you even
thought about how much information you are potentially giving away with small
quizes on social sites? Have you even thought about these questions and felt
some of them [may be very similar to your password recovery
questions](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2018/04/dont-give-away-historic-details-about-yourself/)?

_2017 Hacked Website Report_. Sucuri has released their [annual hacked website
report](https://sucuri.net/reports/Sucuri-Hacked-Report-2017.pdf). There are
some interesting items including:
  * Wordpress is the most prevalent CMS, and the one that is most likely to be
    up to date. BUT since it is so common it also ends up being the platform
    with the most infections over the same period.
  * Only 17% of websites Sucuri identified as compromised ended up on blacklists
    in the same interval.
  * The number of infected files needing cleaning almost doubled YoY,
    demonstrated an increase in depth of compromise.

_How (not) to do session management_  What happens when you design session
managements where sessions are timestamps and never seem to expire? [This blog
post](https://randywestergren.com/compromising-opendrives-cloud-storage-accounts-or-how-not-to-design-session-management/)
for one, where one researcher noticed he could effectively gain access to any
client's files for a specific cloud data storage company.

_Malware code signing abuse deep dive_. We've talked about malware code signing
[recently]({% post_url 2017-11-10-security-roundup-2017-11-10%}), but Trend
Micro does a further [deep
dive](https://blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/understanding-code-signing-abuse-in-malware-campaigns/)
on the topic. Interestingly, they see more signed malware than signed legitimate
apps.

_On the lifecycle of exploit development_. There is obviously much interest in
how long it takes from an exploit to be known to being used in the wild. One
security researcher was surprised to discover that some SQLi injection
vulnerabilities he had documented had not been used and decided to find out why.
This seems to be in part due to malicious actors [monitoring certain
sites](https://duo.com/decipher/web-application-bugs-from-disclosure-to-exploit),
where if an exploit is not disclosed on those sites it might be ignored.
