---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2018-05-18
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2018-05-18'
tags:
- internetofthings
- malware
- patchingcandence
- vulnerabilities
---

_Incorrect handling of HTML leads to security problems_.
[eFail](https://efail.de/) is the latest named vulnerability going around.
Initially hyped as a PGP failure, what actually is happening is that systems
interpreting HTML can be abused to exfiltrate data. If you combine this with
automatic decryption of PGP data in your email client, you potentially have your
client decrypt the text and then handily send it to an external source. The EFF
has an extensive 
[FAQ](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2018/05/pgp-and-efail-frequently-asked-questions).

_Remote code injection in DHCP client_. RedHat Linux and variants have released
patches for a bug that caused the dhcp client to [parse responses like
commands](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2018/05/16/redhat-admins-patch-now-dont-let-your-servers-get-pwned/)
allowing for remote code execution. The PoC exploit [fit into a
tweet](https://twitter.com/Barknkilic/status/996470756283486209).

_Rowhammer in the wild_. Several [Rowhammer
attacks](https://people.inf.ethz.ch/omutlu/pub/dram-row-hammer_isca14.pdf) have
been demonstrated in the wild, including one triggered by sending [packets over
a
network](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/05/attackers-trigger-rowhammer-bit-flips-by-sending-network-packets-over-a-lan/)
and another that used the [GPU on
phones](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/05/drive-by-rowhammer-attack-uses-gpu-to-compromise-an-android-phone/).

_When your desktop apps have XSS_. Electron, a framework for creating cross
platform desktop apps using html, css and javascript had a [remote code
execution
exploit](https://www.trustwave.com/Resources/SpiderLabs-Blog/CVE-2018-1000136---Electron-nodeIntegration-Bypass/)
disclosed this week, due to an incorrect handling of defaults. This potentially
means that a number of Electron apps are exposed to cross site scripting
attacks. Related, the secure messaging app Signal had [two XSS
vulnerabilities](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2018/05/16/serious-xss-vulnerability-discovered-in-signal/)
found in their desktop app.

_Active zero day for Internet Explorer_. Discovered by [two seperate security
companies](https://blog.malwarebytes.com/threat-analysis/2018/05/internet-explorer-zero-day-browser-attack/) 
investigating attacks, make sure you upgrade and/or move to more modern
browsers.

_IBM bans thumb drives_. IBM has recently reviewed their security standards and
has decided that [thumb drives are no longer to be
used](https://gizmodo.com/ibm-reportedly-bans-all-employees-from-using-any-remova-1825921599).
Given their history as an attack vector, as well as a common method to lose/leak
data this seems like a smart (though perhaps hard to enforce/implement)
strategy.

_Subliminal IoT_. Students at UC Berkley have demonstrated that voice assistants
can be controlled by [subliminal
messages](https://gizmodo.com/alexa-and-siri-can-be-controlled-using-subliminal-messa-1825929116).

_This photocopier contains secrets_. Getting rid of old photocopiers/scanners at
work? Make sure they [aren't storing
secrets](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/digital-photocopiers-loaded-with-secrets/),
like maybe social security numbers, contracts, or medical records.

_People Don't Patch_. I actually talked to members at Sonatype about this, where
they see [thousands of organizations downloading vulnerable software
packages](http://fortune.com/2018/05/07/security-equifax-vulnerability-download/),
like the Struts vulnerability that resulted in huge news stories when it was the
cause of the Equifax breach.

