---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2018-02-01
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2018-02-01'
tags:
- android
- hardware
- malware
- passwords
- plugins
- usbdrives
---

_Self Destructing USB Drives_. We've covered malicious USB drives many times, including
one that will actively break. Going a step further, one budding engineer decided
to build a USB drive that would deliver a payload, and then also trigger 5V
internally to do something like [trigger a small explosive
charge](https://medium.com/@_MG_/mr-self-destruct-7986998f32a8).

_Malicious extensions not just for Chrome_. Perhaps the first instance of a
Firefox plugin installing a cryptominer has [recently been
discovered](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/image-previewer-first-firefox-addon-that-injects-an-in-browser-miner/).
The addon is pushed from malicious sites as a 'Firefox update', but installs the
malicious extension from another site instead, 'rewarding' users with spam pop
ups as well as running a cryptocurrency miner in the background.

_Google cleans out malicious android apps_. Google has done a retrospective on
[malicious Android apps in
2017](https://android-developers.googleblog.com/2018/01/how-we-fought-bad-apps-and-malicious.html).
All in all, they took down over 700K malicious android apps, and while this was
more than a 70% increase over 2016 they claim they halved the chance of someone
actually installing malicious apps because they are catching these apps sooner
in the process.

_Fitness tracker reveals all too much_. Fitness tracking company Strava recently
released a global 'heat map' of user activity. A university student in Australia
was the first to point out it showed things like [government military
bases](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/30/world/australia/strava-heat-map-student.html). 
Lifehacker reports on [how hard it is to make your data
private](https://vitals.lifehacker.com/how-to-keep-strava-from-telling-everyone-where-you-live-1822516959)
on Strava, though Strava has now indicated they will work on [improving privacy
and data
protection](https://www.engadget.com/2018/01/30/strava-will-focus-on-privacy-awareness-to-address-security-issue/).

_All is fair in love and ransomwar?_ Ransomware authors themselves have raised 
the alarm that at least one Tor proxy service is [replacing bitcoin wallet
addresses from ransoms with their
own](https://www.proofpoint.com/us/threat-insight/post/double-dipping-diverting-ransomware-bitcoin-payments-onion-domains).
Understandably making ransomware authors angry, as well as probably frustrating
ransom payers who are not getting unlock codes.

_Fingerprints are not passwords_. And I guess Lenovo recognized this since their
fingerprint scanner for some laptops had [a hardcoded password to bypass
it](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lenovos-fingerprint-scanner-can-be-bypassed-via-a-hardcoded-password/).
Lenovo has submitted an update, so if you are using one of their products be
sure to upgrade!

_ATM Jackpotting makes its way to America_. 'Jackpotting' is an ATM based attack
using malware to eventually trigger the ATM to spit out all its money and
apparently this has now been [recorded as happening in
America](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2018/01/first-jackpotting-attacks-hit-u-s-atms/). 
Initial reports indicate the malware used is targeted towards a specific
manufacturer, but analysts believe that it could be modifier to work against
ATMs provided by multiple manufacturers. These attacks apparently began late
last year, with [suspects
arrested](https://krebsonsecurity.com/2018/01/drug-charges-tripped-up-suspects-in-first-known-atm-jackpotting-attacks-in-the-us/),
though the attack has been known as feasible since 2010 when it was
[demonstrated at Black Hat](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ss_RWctTARU).

_CrossRAT Deconstruction_. CrossRAT is a RAT which can run on Windows, Linux and
OSX. Patrick Wardle of Objective-See [breaks down the technical
details](https://objective-see.com/blog/blog_0x28.html) of this RAT, with
perhaps a slight eye on OSX.

_Gitlab beefs up security for users_. Gitlab is following in the footsteps of
Github by working towards [integrating security monitoring of project
dependencies](https://about.gitlab.com/2017/12/22/gitlab-10-3-released/#static-application-security-testing-sast).
Gitlab has aquired startup
[Gemnasium](https://gemnasium.com/blog/gemnasium-is-acquired-by-gitlab/) to
further expand this initiative, which will give them an impressive roster of
languages they will be checking.

