---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2018-01-18
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2018-01-18'
tags:
- blockchain
- bugbounties
- breaches
- exploits
---

_Vulnerability Breach Disclosure_. Troy Hunt is apparently sitting on hundreds
of potential data leaks. Biggest problem he faces here? Wanting to privately
disclose the information to impacted companies before going public with the
disclosure. With that in mind, he has written up a [series of
escalations](https://www.troyhunt.com/streamlining-data-breach-disclosures-a-step-by-step-process/)
he has in mind to streamline the process on his end.

_Blockchain Graveyard_. Interested in security and cryptocurrency? You may be
interested in the [Blockchain
Graveyard](https://magoo.github.io/Blockchain-Graveyard) a site collecting
security incidents around cryptocurrencies.

_Passphrase collision in blockchain network_. Lisk, a minor blockchain network,
has had to notify users about the possibility about collisions in passphrases
and keys that could in theory lead to [someone gaining control of their account
and stealing
funds](https://blog.lisk.io/lisks-holiday-security-reminder-44b49405384f). The
security researcher behind these findings has also [published a
rundown](https://research.kudelskisecurity.com/2018/01/16/blockchains-how-to-steal-millions-in-264-operations/)
of the problem.

_Mozilla announces further steps in security_. Mozilla has announced that [all
future new features will be restricted to security
contexts](https://blog.mozilla.org/security/2018/01/15/secure-contexts-everywhere/).
[Secure
Contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts)
are a feature in which there is a reasonable confidence that content has been
delivered securely, rather than potentially being Man in the Middled. Firefox
hopes that this will help usher in yet more increased adoption of HTTPS.

_CyberSecurity exit for malware author_. Cybersecurity has seen its latest exit
with Exobot's author deciding to get out of the rental business and [straight up
sell the source
code](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/exobot-author-calls-it-quits-and-sells-off-banking-trojan-source-code/).
Security researchers are generally worried that this will lead to another Mirai
type scenario where the source will end up public, lowering the bar of entry for
a certain number of attacks.

_Bug Bounty Triage_. Thinking about running a bug bounty? HackerOne provides
some tips on how to think about [triage and
prioritization](https://www.hackerone.com/blog/Bug-Bounty-or-Bust-Art-Triage).

_Pixel Remote Exploit Chain Discovered_. While the Pixel phone survived 2017's
Mobile Pwn2Own competition in 2017, the team celebrates their first [remote
exploit](https://security.googleblog.com/2018/01/android-security-ecosystem-investments.html),
paying out more than 100K through their bug bounty (their highest bounty yet!).
The bug leverages a chain of vulnerabilities, starting with WebAssembly and
managing to break out of the mobile Chrome sandbox. Full details are in the
link.

_Directory listing to account takeover_. Or perhaps better labeled 'Why
Configuration Matters', after one security expert finds an open directory
listing which includes webhook logs for a companies email provider.
Unfortunately, said logs happened to include [password reset links for
customers](https://ifc0nf1g.xyz/blog/post/directory-listing-to-takeover/),
allowing the researcher to trigger a password reset and use the logs to
effectively take over any account.

