---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2018-03-01
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2018-03-01'
tags:
- disclosure
- ddos
- encryption
- ransomware
- securityfail
---

_Biggest DDoS attack to date hits Github_. And Github (relatively) [came through
with only minor bruises](https://www.wired.com/story/github-ddos-memcached),
despite traffic being measured at 1.35 *terabits* per second. Akamai
technologies thwarted the attack, having planned for 5x traffic volume from the
last major DDoS attack at 1.2 terabits/second. The attack leveraged memcached, a
service used as a key value store to improve data lookups, of which Shodan.io
indicates [~90k instances open on the
internet](https://www.shodan.io/search?query=11211+stats) and Rapid7 indicates
[similar
numbers](https://blog.rapid7.com/2018/02/27/the-flip-side-of-memcrashed/) at
around 100K instances.

_Trustico or trust no more?_. TLS certificate reseller Trustico hit the
limelight this week when they attempted to revoke 50K TLS certificates they had
issued and, as proof, emailed Digicert [23K private
keys](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/03/23000-https-certificates-axed-after-ceo-e-mails-private-keys/).
Certificate Authorities are not supposed to store private keys, since they can
be used to MitM traffic/allow someone to masquerade as a legitimate site if they
happen to be leaked or stolen and [Trustico is in some hot water over this
revelation](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/trustico-states-they-stored-private-keys-for-customers-ssl-certificates/)
as security researches have found certificates for companies like banks.

_Conterfeit code certificates more common than expected_. Researchers at
Recorded Future have indicated that an increase in legitimately signed malware
isn't due to stolen certificates, but actually due to [stolen corporate
identities](https://www.recordedfuture.com/code-signing-certificates/) allowing
criminals to create new signing certificates effectively on demand (and thus
undermining their value). While costs are still high, a determined and/or
sophisticated user could use these certificates to lower the likelihood that
their malware payload is detected as a malicious app.

_Password leak checking_. Checking for bad passwords got a lot of attention this
week due to Troy Hunt releasing v2 of his [Pwned Passwords
list](https://www.troyhunt.com/ive-just-launched-pwned-passwords-version-2/),
designed to allow companies to build in better password checks (now at half a
BILLION hashes and including counts for uniqueness checks), as well as news that
1Password was integrating this list into their service to let users know if a
new password they would like to use has [already been part of a
breach](https://techcrunch.com/2018/02/23/1password-bolts-on-a-pwned-password-check/).

_Alexa top one million header analysis_. Scott Helme has completed his by-annual
analysis of [security header
adoption](https://scotthelme.co.uk/alexa-top-1-million-analysis-february-2018) 
for the Alexa top million. In good news, adoption is increasing, mostly by
double digits! Bad news, adoption is still in single to low double digit ranges.

_To disclose, or not to disclose_. This is the question more and more security
researchers are starting to have to ask themselves as a number of companies have
[initiated
lawsuits](http://www.zdnet.com/article/chilling-effect-lawsuits-threaten-security-research-need-it-most/)
against security researchers that have publically revealed their findings. In
the age of bug bounty programs like HackerOne and BugCrowd, this seems like two
giant steps back.
