---
layout: post
title: Security Roundup - 2018-01-15
author: Seanstoppable
category: security-roundup
date: '2018-01-15'
tags:
- assessment
- breaches
- hardware
- vulnerabilities
---

_More Intel security woes_. Last year appears to have been a rough year for
Intel, with a security research from July [disclosing how easy it is to gain
remote
access](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/01/researcher-finds-another-security-flaw-in-intel-management-firmware/)
to machines with Intel's Active Management Technology. While the attack does
require physical access, it actually just involves rebooting the computer and
gaining access to the bios and configuring Intel's AMT with a default password.
This could then allow an attacker to bypass Trusted Platform Module protections,
or even Bitlocker disk encryption passwords. Mitigation is as simple as
protecting the BIOS, and these options, with better passwords.

_Lenovo fixes backdoors in network switches_. After an internal firmware audit,
Lenovo has [fixed
backdoors](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/lenovo-discovers-and-removes-backdoor-in-networking-switches/)
in 2 lines of switches. Added in 2004, when these devices were managed by
Nortel and Lenovo states these were [added on request from an OEM
customer](https://support.lenovo.com/us/en/product_security/len-16095).

_Let's Encrypt disables TLS-SNI validation due to shared infrastructure
concerns_. Security researchers have discovered a way to abuse TLS-SNI
validation in Let's Encrypt to [obtain TLS certificates for sites they don't
control](https://blog.detectify.com/2018/01/12/acme-tls-sni-01-shared-hosting-exploit-using-lets-encrypt/)
This attack largely comes into play with shared infrastructure, where multiple
accounts use the same IP, and the hosting provider doesn't provide any checks
around certificates. After reviewing potentially vulnerable providers, Let's
Encrypt has opted to [remove this form of
validation](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/2018-01-11-update-regarding-acme-tls-sni-and-shared-hosting-infrastructure/50188)
due to the overwhelming volume. Instead, they suggest moving to DNS and HTTP
based verification.

_India's Aadhaar System_. Recent weeks have contained criticism of India's
biometric database, specifically around their security. On Aadhaar's side are
plenty of comments that their system is 'hack proof'. Offended by the concept of
'hack proof', Troy Hunt has done a partial [rundown of their public security
posture](https://www.troyhunt.com/is-indias-aadhaar-system-really-hack-proof-assessing-a-publicly-observable-security-posture/)
and it isn't pretty.

_EFF's guide on vendor data security assessment_. With breaches getting more and
more prevalent, we should all be concerned about how our security is stored. And
maybe you are someone at a SMB which doesn't really have a security team, but
want's to think about that when vetting third parties you want to do business
with. In that case, you will want to read the EFF's guide on ['How to Assess a
Vendor's Data
Security'](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2018/01/how-assess-vendors-data-security),
covering things to think about, search for, and ask. As well a few things to
make sure you find out about problems as quickly as possible.

_Local network storage takeover_. Seagate has fixed a problem in a series of
network storage devices. A local call to the device could [trick it into running
commands and enabling remote
access](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/seagate-quietly-patches-dangerous-bug-in-nas-devices/),
but since these calls can be executed by the browser, there are a few attack
vectors available, including phishing, malvertisements, or malicious browser
extensions. Unfortunately, while Seagate has fixed the problem, they have
apparently not actually responded to security researchers that contacted them
about it.

_Crackdown on Cybercrime celebrated with more Cybercrime_. Taiwan recently
celebrated a crackdown on cybercrime with a cybersecurity expo. Embarrassingly,
winners of a cybersecurity knowledge quiz were [awarded USB drives that has been
infected by
malware](https://nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2018/01/12/police-give-out-infected-usbs-as-prizes-in-cybersecurity-quiz/).
Sadly, this isn't the first time something like this has happened in the
cybersecurity space, and we should keep in mind how USB drives are a [security
risk](https://www.hackread.com/how-your-usb-becomes-a-security-risk/).
